[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
[IMG_0041.JPG]
Where the environment meets San Francisco politics.
Blog
Our latest news and thoughts...
Vote YES on Prop H and RTM!
/ SFLCV Board
The San Francisco League of Conservation Voters strongly endorses two complementary transit measures, the Regional Transit Measure (RTM) and San Francisco's Proposition H. Although the mechanisms of each measure are different, the goals are the same - saving our Bay Area transit systems Muni, BART, Caltrain, AC Transit, and others from catastrophic cuts.
Bay Area transit systems are facing a fiscal crisis that will result in major cutbacks on services unless voters step in to authorize increased funding.
Our transit systems and their budgets were designed for 5-days-a-week commutes, which haven’t been as prevalent since the Covid pandemic. Some agencies’ budgets, like BART’s and Caltrain’s, are especially reliant on funding from fares. Additionally, as we have all felt, costs have grown significantly due to inflation, leading to significantly higher labor and maintenance costs for our transit systems.
Now, stop-gap pandemic-era federal funding is running out. All Bay Area transit systems are facing significant service cutbacks if the RTM and Prop H don't pass:
BART may be forced to shut down entirely, but even if it does not, service will be cut to only about a third of current service, fares will rise 50%, 15 stations will close, and much of their staff will be laid off.
Muni reports that numerous high-ridership routes will likely disappear. Beyond cancelling up to 20 bus routes, remaining routes may face doubled wait times and regular service ending at
Caltrain will cut service to one train an hour (currently trains run every 15 minutes during peak periods on weekdays and every half hour at other times) and close more than a third of all stations. All weekend service will be eliminated entirely.
These service cuts would significantly reduce transit ridership in the Bay Area and result in more cars on the road. That will worsen traffic congestion for both drivers and transit riders, while also increasing greenhouse gas emissions from driving. Further, the region's economy will founder without access to transit. Imagine all the workers of all income levels who depend on affordable and reliable transit systems - whether tech workers taking Caltrain to and from Silicon Valley, workers in SF commuting to and from the East Bay on BART, or the hundreds of thousands of us who rely on Muni service daily. Even if you never take transit, but only drive, the dramatically increased congestion alone will make your daily commutes much, much worse.
To avoid this, our transit systems need dedicated funding sources beyond the farebox. That is precisely what the two measures are designed to do, in complementary ways.
The Regional Transit Measure will raise ~$1 billion/year over the next 14 years via a sales tax of 1% in San Francisco (and 0.5% in all other Bay Area counties). This funding is dedicated to transit operations, not one-time projects. While sales taxes are generally considered regressive (in that poorer individuals feel the bite disproportionately), we feel that in this case, it is the least harmful option because the alternatives, like raising fares and cutting service, will affect those communities much harder.
Proposition H, also known as "Stronger Muni for All," will create a 15-year parcel tax (meaning it is assessed on owned land) which will raise ~$160M/year specifically for Muni operations. The proposed tax is both fair and tiered with almost all single-family residences paying a flat $129 annually, and with larger homes subject to progressively higher rates. The largest commercial properties would pay up to $400,000 annually, ensuring the biggest properties contribute the most. Landlords could pass a maximum of $65 per year through to tenants, and primary residences owned by seniors would generally be exempt. These tax increases for homeowners are very small compared to the dramatic losses in property value if these measures fail - as much as $14,100 for a median San Francisco home, according to City estimates.
San Francisco needs both measures because our transit ridership per capita is much higher than anywhere else in the Bay, while our sales tax revenue is smaller per person. Muni's deficit is around $300 million; the RTM will provide about half, with Prop H providing the other half. In addition to efficiency measures, the package is designed to leave Muni stronger than status quo.
Both measures come with strong fiscal oversight provisions: Prop H requires independent annual audits, annual Controller reports to the Board of Supervisors, and a citizens oversight committee. The Regional Transit Measure requires an Independent Oversight Committee with representation from all counties as well as county-level review committees.
Transportation is California's single largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, about 41% of the state's total, and that does not cover pollution or environmental justice aspects of transit. Investing in transit is an investment in a healthier and more resilient Bay Area. Robust transit systems also support a better quality of life and a stronger economy for all residents.
Furthermore, several systems are making significant post-pandemic improvements:
Muni is posting its best ridership satisfaction in 20 years, with dramatic successes on some of its most important routes (like the Van Ness BRT, which has cut travel times by over a third).
This spring, BART logged its best customer satisfaction in its history (91.4% satisfied or very satisfied with BART service), its all-time highest customer on-time performance (95% on-time), and a 67% reduction in crimes on the system since 2024.
Caltrain is booming - ridership has grown dramatically since its electrification investment brought faster and much more frequent trains, as promised.
Enrollment in the Clipper START program, standardizing transit discounts for lower-income users of all our systems, has jumped dramatically (~47,000 new enrollees), which has translated to nearly three times as many trips taken by participants on BART and AC Transit.
Our transit systems are a key component of making the Bay Area a place we love, and without it, we will all lose. This is why a broad coalition of organizations of every stripe has endorsed these measures, from labor unions to the SF Chamber of Commerce, from environmental groups to disability advocates, and many more.
Vote Yes on the Regional Transit Measure and on Proposition H, Stronger Muni for All!
San Francisco League of Conservation Voters
No results found
email: info@sflcv.org facebook: www.facebook.com/sflcv