[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
[IMG_0041.JPG]
[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
Where the environment meets San Francisco politics.
Blog
Our latest news and thoughts...
[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
Vote NO on Prop G to protect Sunset Dunes Park, recreation space, and San Francisco’s budget
/ SFLCV Board
The San Francisco League of Conservation Voters (SFLCV) opposes Prop G. Dismantling Sunset Dunes Park in favor of automobile traffic during weekdays would be a costly backtrack on what has been a successful project providing needed recreation areas for San Franciscans year-round.
Since its establishment in by way of ’s Prop K, Sunset Dunes Park has become a beloved green space utilized by an average of ~4,900 San Franciscans each day. Over half of the park’s visits occur during weekdays, with visitors more likely to arrive by walking, biking, or transit than by driving. About 41% of park visitors come from areas of San Francisco beyond the Outer Sunset. 85% of park visitors come with someone else, with over half of all visitors coming with children. About one in four visitors is a senior. All of these data points indicate that Sunset Dunes is now a vibrant community space throughout the week that is accessible and attractive to broad demographics across the city.
Opponents of the park often cite traffic concerns on neighboring streets as their primary call-to-action for reactivating the area for car use. However, analyses show that there have been no statistically significant changes to congestion and collision rates on nearby streets since the park's establishment. Eliminating the park would thus deprive thousands of San Franciscans of recreation space while making little improvement to traffic patterns.
The San Francisco controller’s office estimates that closing the park and resurrecting a highway would require approximately $9.8 million in initial costs. About $8.8 million would be needed to add new transit signals at the intersections, while about $1 million would be needed for restriping lanes and for removing existing park equipment like benches, art, and the skate park.
On top of those initial expenses would be annual maintenance costs associated with removing wind-blown sand from the road. When cars were allowed, the Upper Great Highway closed up to 27 times a year to deal with sand removal. Without cars in the park, the trails require consistent but less frequent sand removal. It is such a persistent issue that SF Rec & Parks is implementing a phased revegetation effort to better stabilize the nearby dunes. In order to keep a highway in operable conditions for cars, additional sand removal and road maintenance efforts costing anywhere between $500,000 and $1.9 million annually would likely be required, according to the controller’s office. This would be nearly two to six times as much as the maintenance costs for the park in FY25-26.
SFLCV opposes Prop G so that SF taxpayers will not have to sacrifice hard-fought recreational space for an ineffective and costly highway. Vote “No” on Prop G!
San Francisco League of Conservation Voters
No results found
email: info@sflcv.org facebook: www.facebook.com/sflcv