[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
[IMG_0041.JPG]
Where the environment meets San Francisco politics.
Blog
Our latest news and thoughts...
No Endorsement for District 4 Supervisor
/ SFLCV Board
The San Francisco League of Conservation Voters (SFLCV) has chosen not to endorse a candidate for District 4 supervisor.
Supervisor Alan Wong, Jeremy Greco, and Albert Chow all ran for District 4 supervisor in the special election. For November’s regular election, Wong and Greco returned updated questionnaires (available on our endorsement page) while Chow again declined to participate.
Wong’s and Greco’s fundamental positions on our areas of greatest interest - housing, transportation, and Sunset Dunes - did not change from the June special election. As we wrote in June, Wong and Greco:
showed real alignment with our priorities in some areas, [but neither] made a compelling enough case across each of these critical issues (housing, transportation, and Sunset Dunes) to earn our endorsement. Wong supports measures that will increase housing density and prioritize transit in District 4, but he has not supported maintaining Sunset Dunes as a permanent park... Greco supports Sunset Dunes, but offered unclear reservations about… upzoning in the Family Zoning Plan.
While Greco’s views on transportation were aligned with SFLCV’s in June, his updated answers demonstrate more robust support of transit funding, bike lanes, and Slow Streets.
The most noticeable change in Wong’s views was on public power. In June, he supported a path toward public power ownership; in his updated questionnaire, he opposes such a path.
Despite these changes, we still felt neither candidate presented a holistic vision for District 4 that aligns closely with SFLCV’s priorities, and so we declined to make an endorsement. However, we look forward to working with the next Supervisor to address the challenges facing District 4 and San Francisco at large.
San Francisco League of Conservation Voters
No results found
email: info@sflcv.org facebook: www.facebook.com/sflcv