[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
[IMG_0041.JPG]
[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
Where the environment meets San Francisco politics.
Blog
Our latest news and thoughts...
[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
SFLCV Endorses Matt Dorsey for District 6 Supervisor
/ SFLCV Board
The San Francisco League of Conservation Voters (SFLCV) endorses Matt Dorsey for supervisor in District 6 based on his steadfast support for increasing housing density, improving transit, and reducing San Francisco’s carbon footprint by shifting away from automobile dependency.
High housing density, particularly when coupled with extensive transit, walking, and biking options, helps minimize the Bay Area’s carbon footprint by preventing urban sprawl, which is typically associated with increased car use and greenhouse gas emissions. With that in mind, Dorsey has been a reliable supporter throughout his tenure on the Board of Supervisors of initiatives aimed at increasing San Francisco’s housing stock and removing barriers for development. He voted to approve the Family Zoning Plan, which reformed zoning rules along major transit corridors to allow for taller, multi-family developments throughout the city. He also sponsored legislation to ensure that development at Treasure Island, the District 6 neighborhood which contains the most new housing in the city, continues apace. Additionally, he has voted in favor of suspending fees associated with office-to-residential building conversions, which are an emerging source of new housing in some of the densest parts of District 6.
On transportation priorities, Dorsey has supported a redesign of Folsom Street, which will add a transit-only lane for Muni, new bus boarding islands for the 12-Folsom and 27-Bryant, and protected bike lanes. He also supports making similar improvements on Howard Street. Dorsey serves as the chair of the Treasure Island Mobility Management Agency and has overseen efforts to secure funding for microtransit, shuttles, electric ferry charging infrastructure, battery buses, and enhanced Muni service for the island. Like SFLCV, he endorses both 2026 measures Stronger Muni for All (Proposition H) and Connect Bay Area (the Regional Transit Measure or RTM), which are essential to protect and improve Muni, BART, Caltrain, and other Bay Area transit services. Finally, he was a co-sponsor of the successful 2024 measure to establish Sunset Dunes, the oceanfront park created by fully pedestrianizing the former Upper Great Highway. Each of these efforts help make it easier and safer for San Franciscans to walk, bike, or use transit instead of driving.
While Dorsey’s opponent, Alex Behrend, has supported some ideas and initiatives aimed at increasing housing affordability for SF residents and small business tenants, his plan for addressing the lack of adequate new housing in the city is scant and his experience in local government is comparatively limited.
A vote for Dorsey represents the best choice for District 6 voters concerned with the environment. The SFLCV is proud to endorse Matt Dorsey for District 6 Supervisor.
San Francisco League of Conservation Voters
No results found
email: info@sflcv.org facebook: www.facebook.com/sflcv