[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
[IMG_0041.JPG]
[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
Where the environment meets San Francisco politics.
Blog
Our latest news and thoughts...
[San Francisco League of Conservation Voters]
Vote YES on Prop D for (Hopefully) Shorter Ballots
/ SFLCV Board
What Is It?
Proposition D is one of three ballot measures that Mayor Lurie is promoting to reform aspects of city elections and governance. (The other two are Proposition E, which would make changes to the City Administrator’s authority and to the City’s contracting procedures, and Proposition F, which would make changes to the management of the City’s executive branch agencies).
Currently, there are four ways for non-Charter local ordinances and policy declarations to get on the ballot:
A majority of the Board of Supervisors may vote to place a measure on the ballot;
The Mayor may unilaterally place a measure on the ballot;
Four or more members of the board of supervisors may collectively add a measure; or
Local voters may add a measure by collecting signatures from at least 2% of registered voters in San Francisco (currently about 10,600 signatures)
Prop D would allow only two ways to add measures to the ballot: A majority vote of the Board of Supervisors, or a signature initiative signed by at least 8% of registered voters in San Francisco (currently about 42,500 signatures).
Prop D would make two other changes:
It would enable proponents to withdraw an initiative if they choose. Currently, they cannot withdraw an initiative once it has qualified for the ballot. This restriction, together the low bar for supervisor-sponsored measures, is one reason many ballots feature competing measures.
It would increase the number of signatures required to call a special election from 10% of votes for mayor in the most recent general municipal election (currently about 39,000 signatures) to 10% of registered voters (currently about 53,100 signatures). Most initiatives are added to the ballot at the next regularly-scheduled election. A special election means that an election is called only because of that initiative. We generally oppose special elections due to their cost and low participation.
Most of the attention to Prop D focuses on the change in signature thresholds for petition initiatives.
First, it is important to note that signature requirements for charter amendments and recalls would not change. Both types of initiatives require 10% of registered voters, currently about 53,100 signatures.
Both critics and supporters overstate the impact of Prop D. It may be more difficult for certain citizen-led initiatives to reach the signature threshold, but it is still reasonable and keeps charter and recall signature thresholds unchanged. San Francisco’s current threshold of only 2% of registered voters for non-Charter measures is significantly lower than what other major cities in California require. Oakland and many other cities require signatures from 10% of registered voters. Prop D’s threshold of 8% would still be lower than most major California cities. San Francisco voters may see some relief on their long and complicated ballots, but changes to the signature-gathering requirements will affect only a fraction of the measures.
Perhaps more impactful are the requirements it adds for the Mayor and Supervisors. Prop D would require a majority vote of the Board of Supervisors and therefore greater agreement among elected officials before initiatives are presented to voters.
From through , 69 measures appeared on the San Francisco ballot by various means. Had Prop D been in effect, the 12 measures placed on the ballot by the mayor or a minority of the Board of Supervisors would have been excluded. Eight others would have faced greater signature requirements and may or may not have appeared on the ballot.
SFLCV believes good government is essential to building a sustainable San Francisco, and we support reforms that strengthen public confidence in our democracy. Voters deserve a ballot process that produces clear choices, encourages thoughtful policymaking, and gives residents confidence that major changes have received meaningful public consideration. A higher threshold for qualifying ballot measures - for both citizens and elected officials - can help ensure that measures placed before voters demonstrate substantial support.
Please vote YES on Proposition D.
San Francisco League of Conservation Voters
No results found
email: info@sflcv.org facebook: www.facebook.com/sflcv