Voter Guide
For the election, SPUR analyzed local, state, and regional measures related to our policy areas that will appear on San Francisco, San José, and Oakland ballots. Our analysis includes each measure's backstory, equity impacts, pros and cons, and SPUR's voting recommendation.
San José voters, the city did not place any measures on your ballot this election. Please see the California and Bay Area sections for our recommendations on state and regional measures.
​ Print Voter Guide Voter Guide Archive​
AllSan FranciscoOaklandBay AreaCalifornia Submit
Search
San Francisco (SF)
Prop
A
Departments and Commission
Vote YES
B
Public Bank
Vote NO
C
Housing Trust Fund
D
Ballot Measure Process
E
City Administrator Duties
F
Executive Branch Management
G
Cars in Sunset Dunes
H
Muni Parcel Tax
I
Transfer Tax Set-Aside
J
Transfer Tax on Foreclosures
Oakland (OAK)
Measure
EE
Governance Structure
FF
Bay Area (BA)
RTM
Regional Transit Sales Tax
California (CA)
1
Affordable Housing Bond
2
Rainy Day Fund
3
High-Earner Income Tax Extension
4
Campaign Financing
5
Recall Process Reform
37
Homeowner Loans
39
California Voter ID
40
Billionaire Tax
No Recommendation
41
Audits of Special Taxes
42
Personal Property Taxes
43
Local Tax Threshold
45
Environmental Review (CEQA)
SPUR Voter Guide Purpose and Process
The SPUR Voter Guide aims to offer objective analysis and advise voters on which measures will deliver real solutions.
For this election, SPUR analyzed local, regional, and state measures related to our policy areas that will appear on San Francisco, San José, and Oakland ballots.
SPUR staff researched and analyzed all ballot measures.
For California and Bay Area measures, a committee of the SPUR Board of Directors reviewed staff research, heard arguments from proponents and opponents of the relevant measures, debated each measure's merits, and provided recommendations to the full SPUR Board for a vote.
For city measures, SPUR’s city advisory boards in San Francisco and Oakland formed the ballot analysis committees. (There were no city measures on the San José ballot this election.) Each committee reviewed staff research, heard arguments from proponents and opponents of relevant measures, debated the merits of each, and provided recommendations to the full SPUR Board for a vote.
The SPUR Board of Directors then affirmed each committee's endorsements by a vote of 50% of members. The SPUR Board can overturn the city advisory boards' recommendations with a 60% vote.
The SPUR Board of Directors voted to adopt positions on the relevant measures on, and .
Acknowledgments
California and Bay Area Ballot Analysis Committee: Michelle Alba-Chua, Daniel Cedeño, Sally Ann Flood, David Friedman, Ed Harrington, Shannon Peloquin, Carl Shannon, Lydia Tan, Molly Turner
San Francisco Ballot Analysis Committee: Jack Bair, Chris Brown, Genevieve Cadwalader, Shiyama Clunie, Emily Cohen, Kate Collignon, Kelly Dearman, Ed Harrington, Dawn Kamalanathan, Dorka Keehn, Hao Ko, Angus McCarthy, Alicia Murasaki, Shalini Iyer Rana, Guillermo Rodriguez, Ann Silverberg, Ross Stackhouse, Kate White
Oakland Ballot Analysis Committee: Lynette Dias, Jonathan Fearn, Savlan Hauser, Kiran Jain, Carolyn Johnson, Tony Leong, Warren Logan, Andrea Lowe, Nikki Lowy, Jay Murphy, Shannon Peloquin, Ari Takata-Vasquez, Amy Tharpe, Molly Turner, Deanna Van Buren, Lauren Wilson
SPUR Staff: Sarah Atkinson, Colleen Corrigan, Lori Droste, Sam Fishman, Annie Fryman, Julie Hernandez, Michael Lane, Erika McLitus, Nicole Neditch, Sebastian Petty, Ben Rosenfield, Sujata Srivastava, Laura Tolkoff
Editors: Melissa Edeburn, Ren Steen, Colleen Valles
Paid for by the San Francisco Bay Area Planning and Urban Research Association. Financial disclosures available at sfethics.org.