[Green Foothills]
Select Language简体中文繁體中文EnglishEspañolTiếng Việt
Donate
[Green Foothills]
Select Language简体中文繁體中文EnglishEspañolTiếng Việt
Donate
Green Foothills Voter Guide – Election
Alice Kaufman
[Voter Guide logo]
Green Foothills has taken positions on four state and local ballot measures for the election. We’re urging voters to vote YES on Prop 1, NO on Prop 43, NO on Prop 45, and YES on Measure Q in Half Moon Bay.
Green Foothills’ recommendations for statewide measures appearing on your ballot:
Prop 1 – YES. Prop 1 is a statewide bond measure that will raise $11.25 billion to fund affordable housing. Green Foothills recommends a YES vote to build and preserve affordable housing units, including $450 million specifically for farmworker housing.
Prop 43 – NO. Prop 43 would raise the threshold to two-thirds for citizen initiative funding measures, which are put on the ballot by gathering voter signatures on a petition. An example of this type of funding measure is 2026’s Measure D, which provided funding for the Santa Clara Valley Open Space Authority to protect and restore open space and farmland. Measure D passed with over 55% of the vote – a resounding victory under current law, but not enough to meet the two-thirds threshold that Prop 43 would require. Green Foothills strongly recommends a NO vote on Prop 43.
Prop 45 – NO. Prop 45 would dismantle the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) – our state’s bedrock environmental law – for a huge number of development projects, including data centers, warehouses, freeway expansions, herbicide spraying, forest clearcutting, and residential sprawl on open space. See our recent article, “No on Prop 45” for more details. Green Foothills strongly recommends a NO vote on Prop 45. To learn even more about how Prop 45 would harm California, sign up for our free webinar scheduled for .
Green Foothills is taking a position on one local ballot measure this November:
Measure Q (Half Moon Bay) – YES. Measure Q would confirm a senior farmworker affordable housing project proposed at 555 Kelly Avenue in downtown Half Moon Bay. Green Foothills supported the Half Moon Bay City Council’s vote to approve the project, which will provide 40 affordable apartments for senior farmworkers. Also, if Measure Q is not approved by the voters, it could make the city vulnerable to builder’s remedy housing projects. Green Foothills recommends a YES vote on Measure Q.
Election Day is . Elections officials will begin mailing ballots to registered voters by . Ballots can be returned by mail or dropped off at an official drop-off location or your county elections office. Secure ballot drop-off locations open by . You can also vote early in-person from -31, or in-person on Election Day, . For more information, see https://www.sos.ca.gov/elections (opens a new tab).
If you’re not yet registered to vote, the last day to register online is .
More News Articles
Vote No on Prop 45
[aerial view of Montara Mountain and the San Mateo County coast]
Celebrating 50 Years of Coastal Protection
Take Action for Coyote Valley: Ask OSA to Oppose Heritage Oaks Cemetery
Good News for Snowy Plovers