[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: No on Measure P, American Canyon…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
56°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: No on Measure P, American Canyon needs to look elsewhere for revenue growth
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[Highway 29 and American Canyon Road looking north on afternoon near the Veterans Memorial Park in American Canyon . (Chad Surmick / The Press Democrat file)]
Chad Surmick / The Press Democrat file
Highway 29 and American Canyon Road looking north on afternoon near the Veterans Memorial Park in American Canyon . (Chad Surmick / The Press Democrat file)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Every city council has aspirations. After all, part of campaigning includes a list of promises and lofty goals a prospective council member wants to accomplish on behalf of the city.
American Canyon leadership has lofty goals. It’s in the middle of annexing 281 acres into the northeast part of the city. It’s looking to revamp the Highway 29 corridor with Caltrans to improve traffic flow for vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians alike. It’s been working for more than a year to turn part of its downtown into an entertainment zone.
At the same time, the city council is also asking voters this November to approve Measure P, a new one-cent sales tax measure.
Measure P would raise about $3.7 million annually for the city by raising the local sales tax rate from 7.75% to 8.75%. The sales tax, which does not have a sunset date, needs a simple majority to pass. City Manager Jason Holley says the revenue would help fund general city services, including a wide array of parks and recreation projects identified under a new plan.
“We have an ambitious budget,” Holley told The Press Democrat.
But Holley also said the revenue could go toward fending off encroaching pressures on the city’s budget.
Though the budget is balanced for the 2026-27 fiscal year — somewhat of a rarity for North Bay cities — American Canyon expenditures are expected to outstrip revenues by $400,000 starting the next fiscal year, with the budget gap growing to $1.1 million by 2028-29 and to $1.4 million in 2031-32, according to the city’s budget forecast.
For a city that operates with a $34.2 million budget, a third of which goes to the Napa County Sheriff’s Department for contracted police services, a $1.1 million budget gap isn’t an insurmountable fiscal chasm.
We recommend letting actions speak, first. Trim potential city operations. Council member Mark Joseph noted during a council meeting earlier this year that, “the simple reality is that a lot of it is in our control, provided we focus on seeing how we can anticipate and deal with these issues.”
If city staff are constantly looking at how financial management can be improved and communicating that to the council and the public, then everyone will “have a better feeling that we are doing what we can,” Joseph said in a Press Democrat article.
“If they can look at those same numbers and say ‘oh yeah, we’re lean and mean’ and all that, then that builds our credibility,” he added.
Right now, because residents cannot look at city operations and say they’re lean and mean, the Press Democrat recommends a No vote on Measure P.
Nobody wants to see a city fall into desperate financial straits — two Sonoma County cities are in that situation now and the consequences if their proposed sales taxes don’t pass are dire.
But American Canyon isn’t there yet. The city’s leadership needs to do the work first, tightening the proverbial belt until there are no more belt holes left. They can then come back to voters after showing that they’re making best use of the existing operating dollars.
Leaders also need to be more straightforward about their plans for the money. Will money be used to expand city services or to thwart potential budgetary crises?
With the city’s mixed messaging, it’s hard to tell.
It would also be hard to follow up on that mixed messaging, as the city would not have a citizen oversight committee to follow the use of additional revenue collected through a proposed sales tax.
“We already have an audit,” Holley said.
Instead, the council would rely on graduates from the American Canyon’s Citizens Academy — individuals who are accepted into a free, nine-week program offered by the city to give residents an inside look at how city government operates. These individuals would provide input and make recommendations to the city council on how to prioritize Measure P funds, Holley said.
Although the academy has been in place off and on for a decade, the city has not kept demographic information for participants. As such, the city’s plan to rely on citizens who are able to spend multiple nights and two Saturdays away from work or family obligations, waters down the potential for the needs of American Canyon’s population — of which about 40% are Asian and 30% are Latino — to be represented to the council.
American Canyon voters should demand a better spending plan — both from yearly operational budgets and any forthcoming sales tax proposals — along with an avenue for true community input before approving a sales tax.
The Press Democrat recommends a No vote on Measure P.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
[Candidates for state superintendent of public instruction: Chino Valley School Board President Sonja Shaw and California Department of Education senior policy advisor Richard Barrera.]
Endorsement: Elect Richard Barrera California’s superintendent of public instruction
2026
September
23
Close