[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Yes on K, Rohnert Park sales tax…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
75°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Yes on K, Rohnert Park sales tax would help keep city’s services afloat
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[Sandra Giannini casts her ballot at the Senior Center in Rohnert Park . (Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat)]
Sandra Giannini casts her ballot at the Senior Center in Rohnert Park . (Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Rohnert Park leaders didn’t want to be here, that much is clear.
But like many cities throughout Sonoma County, including Windsor and Santa Rosa, the city has been grappling with years of budget deficits.
They’ve been operating in the red, compensating for lost revenue by dipping into both general fund and casino mitigation impact reserves as big box stores have closed, tourism has waned and property taxes have remained relatively stable.
City Manager Marcela Piedra said the city has also made cuts within its staffing structure, reducing department personnel to nearly bare-bone structures and combining departments, in some cases.
The city hasn’t seen the worst of it yet, Piedra said.
Personnel costs, insurance, vehicle and contract expenses will continue to grow. The city also faces other undetermined costs tied to implementing the city’s updated general plan and what staff described as unfunded mandates by the state, according to a staff report.
Long-term projections show expenses are expected to grow by about 3.3% annually over the next four years while revenues will continue a steady decrease of more than 2%, resulting in a deficit of up to $10.8 million in fiscal year 2030-31.
As a result, the city council is asking Rohnert Park voters to approve a half-cent sales tax this November. The measure requires a simple majority to pass. If it moves forward, Measure K would bring an expected $5.5 million annually into city coffers.
Leaders recognize that residents are already paying a lot more for Rohnert Park services, noting recent water and sewer rate hikes.
But “if residents want to keep their services, we need this tax,” Betsy Howze, the city’s finance director said.
Howze is right. Rohnert Park leaders have made the necessary cuts. Now voters can decide whether they want to receive reduced services or help maintain current levels. The Press Democrat recommends voters maintain current levels by voting yes for Measure K.
Opponents of the measure, which include former city council members, say city leaders have not been good or stringent fiscal managers of the taxpayer’s money. They accuse the council of spending on projects like the downtown plan that have yet to bring revenue into city coffers.
Piedra pushed back at those comments, saying that years of failed long-term planning is part of the reason the city is seeking a new sales tax measure in the first place. She pointed to deferred maintenance that is now costing the city two to three times more than what it would have cost a decade ago as a large financial stressor for the city. The city has about $230 million in deferred maintenance, spread across its water and sewer infrastructure, roads and buildings.
Opposition and community members also point to casino mitigation funds as potential Hail Marys for the city. But Piedra and Howze note that those funds — roughly $14 million annually provided by the Federated Indians of Graton Rancheria — are restricted, meaning they can only be used for certain budgetary items.
Finger-pointing and restricted buckets of money aside, the current and incoming council need to make a tight fiscal plan for the next five years. Should Measure K pass, the $5.5 million will help, but it would not be enough to cover the projected deficit. And limping along by dipping into reserves and using one-time funds to cover ongoing costs, like health insurance and retirement payments, isn’t a long-term plan.
The city needs to focus on making the most of its proposed sales tax, pushing to bring back the big box and small businesses alike that have vacated the city since the pandemic. Piedra said the city has a staffer dedicated to economic development, but admits that changes to purchasing habits — people like to shop online and dine via DoorDash — are making it difficult to bring brick-and-mortars back to Rohnert Park.
While the city works on economic development — CenterCal is slated to file plans for the downtown project next month — voters can provide Rohnert Park leadership (and more importantly, city staff) a platform that will enable the city to thrive into the next decade.
The Press Democrat recommends a yes vote on Measure K.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[How long the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors should retain their text messages is up for debate and has been an issue since the 2017 Tubbs fire. (Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat)]
PD Editorial: Texts about Sonoma County business belong to the public, not the trash folder
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
2026
September
23
Close