[The Press Democrat]
Opinion | Endorsement: For Santa Rosa City Council…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
65°F
eEdition
Opinion
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Endorsement: For Santa Rosa City Council District 4, Jones-Carter is strongest choice
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[Melanie Jones-Carter is a candidate for Santa Rosa City Council in district 4. (Photo provided)]
Melanie Jones-Carter is a candidate for Santa Rosa City Council in district 4. (Photo provided)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Residents in Santa Rosa’s District 4, which encompasses McDonald Avenue, Junior College, Hidden Valley and Fountaingrove neighborhoods in the northeast part of the city, have a tough decision to make this November. With two-term City Council member Victoria Fleming forgoing re-election, voters must find a new steadfast representative.
Fleming’s successor will have a hand in helping guide the city out of a multi-year, multimillion-dollar operating deficit and setting fiscal priorities, should the city see a projected $23 million spending windfall from a proposed sales tax increase on the ballot.
The winner also will be involved in discussions related to the recently approved but long-envisioned proposal to relocate the government headquarters and redevelop the aging city campus as part of a broader effort to revamp the downtown.
At the district level, voters will look to the newly elected leader to be a voice for neighbors as plans for the former county hospital campus on Chanate Road and other developments in the city’s northeast hillsides move through the city development pipeline.
Fortunately for District 4 voters, two community stalwarts have risen to the occasion.
There’s Terry Sanders, a retired Oakland firefighter and current city planning commissioner who ran a tight race against Fleming in 2022. Sanders’ home in Fountaingrove burned in the 2017 fire, giving him a personal connection to a section of District 4 still struggling to rebuild. He has active support among first responders, Mayor Mark Stapp, Vice Mayor Jeff Okrepkie and Councilmember Eddie Alvarez, plus Sonoma County Supervisors David Rabbit, James Gore and Lynda Hopkins.
Melanie Jones-Carter has lived in the Santa Rosa Junior College area since relocating with her family from Palo Alto in 2013. She is retired and has spent more than 30 years in operations and management at both small and large companies, including overseeing budgeting, staff and procurement at Dynatex International. She is a longtime community organizer and chair of the city’s Design Review and Preservation Board.
Jones-Carter is backed by a long list of political might, including State Senator Mike McGuire, State Assemblymember Chris Rogers and Sonoma County Supervisors Chris Coursey and Lynda Hopkins (Hopkins confirmed with The Press Democrat she endorses both candidates). The Sonoma County Democratic Party, Latino PAC of Sonoma County, North Bay Labor Council and other local labor groups all back Jones-Carter, too.
With more than 20 years experience in civic and community volunteer roles, both candidates would serve the city’s northeast district well. The Press Democrat recommends a Yes vote for Melanie Jones-Carter.
While both candidates are campaigning on similar issues — housing affordability, homelessness, infrastructure maintenance and downtown revitalization— Jones-Carter’s experience and organizational management will be assets to a Santa Rosa City Council struggling with a budget deficit and leadership turnover.
Jones-Carter has lofty goals: she wants to start a down payment and mortgage assistance program for first-time home buyers, expand mental health and substance rehabilitation resources and the city’s InRESPONSE team, and create a low-cost repair plan so homeowners can fix sidewalks.
She’ll have to focus on the city’s finances, first. Fortunately, her corporate background and experiences serving on the board of local nonprofits, including Food for Thought, the Museum of Sonoma County, Benton Street Improvement Association and Benton Street Community Garden, have taught her to be savvy with finances.
Her relationships within the Democratic Party, where she has served as the second vice chair of the Sonoma County Democratic Central Committee and delegate of the Sonoma County Democrats, will also enable her to leverage relationships and work across councils and communities.
Santa Rosa District 4 voters are lucky to have two strong candidates this election cycle. The Press Democrat recommends a yes vote for Melanie Jones-Carter for Santa Rosa’s District 4 city council race.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Opinion
[A supporter holds a sign for Democratic candidate for Texas governor Gina Hinojosa while she speaks during a rally, in Lubbock, Texas. (AP Photo/Justin Rex)]
Goldberg: ‘You’ve lied to me enough.’ In Texas, MAGA voters are breaking ranks
[California gubernatorial candidates Xavier Becerra (left) and Steve Hilton, during CNN’s California Gubernatorial Debate on , in CNN’s studio in Burbank, California. Democrat Xavier Becerra and Republican Steve Hilton are the final two contenders in the race for California Governor. The debate was moderated by CNN anchors Jake Tapper and Dana Bash. (Photo by Grace Widyatmadja/CNN)]
Skelton: Becerra on cruise control, Hilton offers contrived fixes for California’s problems
[LettersArt6]
Masking orders, Public execution: PD Letters
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
2026
September
24
Close