[The Press Democrat]
Education | Endorsement: Vote yes on Propositions 40 and 3…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
75°F
eEdition
Education
News
Local News
State
Nation
World
Crime
Politics
Education
Trending:
News
Education
Endorsement: Vote yes on Propositions 40 and 3 so the wealthy pay a fair share to help all Californians
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[An attendee holds a sign before the start of a rally led by US Senator Bernie Sanders, Independent of Vermont, during the campaign kickoff for the California Billionaire Tax Act at The Wiltern in Los Angeles on . (Patrick T. Fallon/AFP/Getty Images North America/TNS)]
An attendee holds a sign before the start of a rally led by US Senator Bernie Sanders, Independent of Vermont, during the campaign kickoff for the California Billionaire Tax Act at The Wiltern in Los Angeles on . (Patrick T. Fallon/AFP/Getty Images North America/TNS)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Two propositions on the ballot ask California’s most fortunate residents to pay a fair share so the rest of the state can stay healthy and keep learning. Proposition 40 would have the state’s billionaires pay a one-time tax to shore up health care. Proposition 3 would make permanent a tax on high earners that funds schools. We recommend a yes vote on both.
Yes on Prop. 40
Last year, Republicans in Congress and President Donald Trump cut roughly $1 trillion from Medicaid over a decade. That will hit California’s Medi-Cal program hard. In Sonoma County, as many as 30,000 residents could lose health coverage and food aid. County officials estimate they would need up to $124 million to help those most in need.
With Proposition 40, California could blunt the harm. It would impose a one-time 5% tax on the net worth of about 200 billionaires who lived in the state on . They could pay that in installments over five years.
Ninety percent of the money would go to health care. The rest would fund education, food assistance and administration. The sponsor, SEIU-United Healthcare Workers West, projects it would raise about $100 billion over five years. The nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office is more cautious, predicting tens of billions over several years.
Prop. 40 is not a permanent fix. It is a cash infusion to deal with an emergency caused by the Trump administration. It would pay for doctors, nurses, hospitals and clinics that serve people who cannot afford health care otherwise.
Five percent of a billionaire’s wealth is a lot of money, but no billionaire will become poor paying it. This is a fair share from the people who gained the most from federal tax cuts. At such heights of wealth, people often live off assets, drawing little salary and minimizing their income taxes with the help of lawyers and accountants.
Opponents warn that billionaires will flee the state. A few have. Maybe a few more will, but if the residency date survives any legal challenges, that will not do them any good.
The Legislative Analyst’s Office projects a possible loss of less than $1 billion a year in income tax from billionaires who leave or respond in other ways. That is a sliver of a $352 billion state budget. Besides, we bet that nearly all will stay. No other state offers what California does, and the billionaires know it.
Yes on Prop. 3
Proposition 3 targets high earners. It would make permanent higher income tax rates that voters first approved in 2012 to support education and extended in 2016. Those rates would otherwise expire in 2031.
The higher rates apply only to income above $371,000 for single filers and $742,000 for joint filers. Those are 2025 thresholds and are adjusted annually for inflation. Letting them expire would amount to a huge tax cut for high earners in 2031 that would cost the state up to $15 billion annually, much of it for K-12 schools and community colleges.
The higher rates were originally sold as temporary. Now voters decide whether to make them permanent, having seen that they work without unreasonably burdening the state’s highest earners.
More Sonoma County school districts are in financial crisis than in any other county. They have already made significant cuts to balance budgets. Santa Rosa City Schools closed six campuses. Petaluma City and Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified school boards voted to cut dozens of positions, mostly teachers. Students would lose even more if the higher rates were to expire. Voters should make them permanent on .
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Education
[Piner Junior and Senior High students walked out of class , and marched down Fulton Road to protest a classmate's social media post that seemed to indicate support for a group of men accused of sexually assaulting a Cornell University student in 2024. (John Burgess/The Press Democrat)]
‘Scary and disappointing’: Hundreds of Piner High students walk out over football captain’s ‘Cornell 7’ comments
[The pride flag flies again at Sonoma Valley High School after being removed for four days in . The Sonoma Valley Unified School District Board of Trustees will discuss flag practices at its schools during a board meeting. (Robbi Pengelly / The Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Pride flag no longer to fly regularly at Sonoma Valley High
[The St. Helena Public Library. (Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat)]
St. Helena students can use school ID cards to access Napa County public library services
[Teacher Rita Leary engages with her students during a Pilot Light food education lesson.]
How a Chicago educator uses food to teach science
2026
October
2
Close