[The Press Democrat]
Opinion | Endorsement: No on Prop. 44; Politics don’t…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
64°F
eEdition
Opinion
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Endorsement: No on Prop. 44; Politics don’t belong in California’s community health clinics
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[Rep. Jared Huffman, far right, and Rep. Mike Thompson hold a press conference with Sonoma County health leaders about the devastating impacts the Republicans' proposed budget cuts at Santa Rosa Community Health'sDutton Clinic. (John Burgess / The Press Democrat)]
John Burgess / The Press Democrat
Rep. Jared Huffman, far right, and Rep. Mike Thompson hold a press conference with Sonoma County health leaders about the devastating impacts the Republicans’ proposed budget cuts at Santa Rosa Community Health’sDutton Clinic. (John Burgess / The Press Democrat)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Sonoma County is home to 18 community health clinics. Napa County has five.
These clinics provide affordable, accessible primary and preventive medical care to some of our county’s most vulnerable residents, regardless of their insurance status or ability to pay.
A proposed state ballot measure puts that at risk.
Proposition 44 would require community clinics to spend at least 90% of their revenue on patient care and the services that support it, and to report publicly how their money is spent. No more than 10% can go to executive pay, administration and overhead.
It sounds like a good idea. Nobody wants nonprofits meant to help the health and well-being of others to have money being siphoned to the top. And nobody can argue against more transparency about how money is spent — especially when some of those dollars come from donors.
For the most part, local community clinics operate on a tight budget, but they’re nowhere near that 10% cap. Sonoma County’s West County Health Centers, which reported a revenue of $23,848,464 in 2021, spent about $7.7 million on 192 staff and administration, or about 32% of its revenue.
Put into context: those family physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses, access coordinators, teen center staff, psychiatrists, psychologists, dentists and dental hygienists (to name a few), served more than 76,000 patients that year.
CommuniCare+OLE, which operates five clinics in Napa County, plus others across Solano and Yolo counties, had a similar margin: in 2021 they made just over $40 million and spent about $14 million on staff and administration — or about 35%.
Here’s the rub with Prop. 44: the measure would set strict spending requirements for nonprofit health clinics that could put precious revenue at risk. Opponents — of which there are more than 150 organizations, including Anderson Valley Health Center, CommuniCare+OLE, Mendocino Coast Clinics, Mendocino Community Health Centers, Redwood Coast Medical Services, Sonoma Valley Community Health Center, Ceres Community Project, California Human Development, Los Cien Sonoma County and La Luz Center — say they would lose $1.7 billion across clinics statewide in the first year, by creating arbitrary standards that an estimated 91% of health centers don’t meet.
Doctors, physicians or healthcare providers wouldn’t be the people defining a spending requirement. That would fall upon the shoulders of California’s Attorney General, who would determine what are healthcare-related expenses and whether affected clinics meet the spending minimum.
This is not what California’s top law enforcement officer should be spending time on. The Press Democrat recommends a no vote on Prop. 44.
Unless Prop. 44 is defeated, many clinics offering a safety net could close at a time when Californians need affordable healthcare the most. California’s community health clinics serve more than 7 million patients each year, including children, working families, seniors, veterans, the uninsured and 1 in 3 Medi-Cal patients.
If passed, the measure would push the vast majority of clinics across California into the red — many of which have spent the last six years clawing their way back from the brink of the pandemic. The proposal also comes at a time when California’s health clinics are facing financial uncertainty as a result of the Trump administration’s “Big Beautiful Bill.”
Considered the largest cut to safety-net programs in American history, HR1 includes a $1 trillion reduction to Medicaid, the federal healthcare coverage program for low-income individuals and families and disabled people, lower reimbursements for hospitals, stiffer eligibility requirements for aid recipients and a deep cut to the federal food assistance program.
In May, Sonoma County officials estimated it would cost $39.6 million to cover indigent care — free or low-cost medical treatment provided to people who lack health insurance, cannot afford out-of-pocket costs, or whose medical bills threaten their household’s financial stability — costs for three years.
That figure includes funding for community health clinics tasked with providing care for the newly uninsured and those who qualify for a basic “life and limb” healthcare program called the County Medical Services Program, or CMSP.
Now is not the time to bring politics into community health clinics. If the effects of Prop. 44 force clinics to close and patients to lose access to care, indigent healthcare needs do not disappear. Patients will delay seeking treatment, only to end up in the hospital emergency room for routine care that will cost them more.
The Press Democrat recommends a no vote on Prop. 44.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Opinion
[How long the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors should retain their text messages is up for debate and has been an issue since the 2017 Tubbs fire. (Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat)]
PD Editorial: Texts about Sonoma County business belong to the public, not the trash folder
[Republican presidential nominee, former U.S. President Donald Trump looks on during a Univision Noticias town hall event on , in Doral, Florida. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images North America/TNS)]
Klas: Latino voters are the new swing voters
[A supporter holds a sign for Democratic candidate for Texas governor Gina Hinojosa while she speaks during a rally, in Lubbock, Texas. (AP Photo/Justin Rex)]
Goldberg: ‘You’ve lied to me enough.’ In Texas, MAGA voters are breaking ranks
[California gubernatorial candidates Xavier Becerra (left) and Steve Hilton, during CNN’s California Gubernatorial Debate on , in CNN’s studio in Burbank, California. Democrat Xavier Becerra and Republican Steve Hilton are the final two contenders in the race for California Governor. The debate was moderated by CNN anchors Jake Tapper and Dana Bash. (Photo by Grace Widyatmadja/CNN)]
Skelton: Becerra on cruise control, Hilton offers contrived fixes for California’s problems
2026
September
26
Close