[The Press Democrat]
Opinion | Endorsement: California’s 4th Congressional…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
72°F
eEdition
Opinion
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Endorsement: California’s 4th Congressional District deserves experience. Mike Thompson will deliver
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[(From left to right): Congressman Mike Thompson; and Eric Jones, self-described progressive Democrat running for the 4th Congressional District. (Darryl Bush / For The Press Democrat file, Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat file)]
(From left to right): Congressman Mike Thompson; and Eric Jones, self-described progressive Democrat running for the 4th Congressional District. (Darryl Bush / For The Press Democrat file, Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat file)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
There’s a lot of pushback right now against so-called lifers in Washington, D.C.
You know the type — senators and congressmen (they’re typically men) who have held office for so long their original constituents have likely died, and now even the grandchildren of those constituents say their elected officials are out of touch.
It’s a hot-button issue in national politics, driving the debate about term limits at the federal level.
Mike Thompson, who has served 27 years in Congress and is seeking another two-year term — this time as the representative for the newly-formed District 4 (Napa, Sutter, Yuba and parts of Lake, Placer, Sacramento, Sonoma, Yolo counties) — is not one of those lifers.
“I am the same person I have always been,” Thompson told The Press Democrat Editorial Board, emphasizing that his voting record over the years has not shifted nor does he flip-flop between being a progressive and a conservative. “I am a Blue Dog Democrat.”
Thompson’s opponent, 35-year-old venture capitalist Eric Jones, would have you think Thompson’s age and tenure are both problematic.
Jones, who has no political experience, says Thompson is part of “the establishment Democratic party” that has failed — and continues to fail — the American people. He says corporate America is lining the pockets of too many Democrats, including Thompson. The result is “a corrupt government that is robbing the American people, ignoring their needs and protecting their own power.”
The solution, Jones says, is to get corporate America out of the government.
The Press Democrat agrees with Jones and his desire to hold politicians accountable. We also recognize the need for change in Washington, but even more so we appreciate strength in stability. The Press Democrat recommends a yes vote for Mike Thompson for California’s 4th Congressional District.
While Jones points out numerous failings and frustrations many Americans have about the federal government, his grandiose ideas (27 and counting) lack concrete plans — despite having the most text on a candidate’s website, he told us — for changing the status quo.
For example, Jones wants to cut federal income tax on the first $150,000 Americans earn. The loss of revenue would be offset by enforcing the 21% corporate income tax, which he says both parties are unwilling to do right now.
But he failed to clearly delineate how he would enforce the plan, persuade other lawmakers to enforce it or ultimately, get the president — whose pockets are lined by corporate dollars — to sign off on it.
Thompson, on the other hand, said he has experience working across party lines to bring millions of dollars into his district, especially during times of disaster. He helped secure $9 million in agricultural disaster relief for peach growers following the bankruptcy of Del Monte and the closure of its cannery. These efforts and experiences will be vital as the area heads into an unprecedented El Niño season this winter.
Thompson also pointed to HR 1 — Trump’s ‘Big Beautiful Bill,’ and views reversing HR 1’s healthcare cuts as a core component of his effort to lead affordability legislation for House Democrats. His first action item after the midterms would be to assume chairmanship of the Health Subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee.
Thompson also has a stronger stance on gun control than Jones. While not as polarizing of an issue on the national level — roughly 48% of Americans desire stronger gun control laws — the majority of Californians favor stricter gun control. It’s easy to see why: The US gun homicide rate is 26 times that of other high-income countries and the US gun suicide rate is nearly 12 times that of other high-income countries.
Thompson, who chairs the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, helped pass and craft the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. Signed by President Joe Biden in 2022, the bill was the first major federal gun safety legislation passed in nearly three decades.
Jones did not have a strong stance on gun control laws, but noted that he would tackle issues that could lead people to use firearms, such as mental health issues, addiction, post-traumatic stress disorder and post-partum depression.
As California and the United States head into two more years of a Trump presidency, voters deserve a representative with expertise and experience in Washington, D.C.. We think Jones has great ideas, but we recommend he gain experience at the municipal or county level first; his communities would greatly benefit. The Press Democrat endorses Mike Thompson for California’s 4th Congressional District.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Opinion
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[This undated photo provided by the Tennessee Department of Correction shows Christa Pike. (Tennessee Department of Correction via AP, File)]
Goldberg: How death penalty opponents share the blame for botched executions
[Hundreds of Cornell students participate in a rally against the university’ s actions after a student was sexually assaulted at a campus fraternity in 2024, on , in Ithaca, New York. (Spencer Platt/Getty Images North America/TNS)]
Butler: Cornell case shows #MeToo is still changing the world
[Cal Fire’s Kristen Cattell, left, and American Canyon firefighter Sarah Bayersdorfer greet Figgy, a therapy dog with First Responders Resiliency. Background left is North Bay firefighter Rebecca Gary, Sonoma Valley firefighter Sofia Iniguez and Santa Rosa Junior College fire academy student Eliza Hodgson, during Women in Public Safety Day at the SRFD training tower, in Santa Rosa. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat) 2023]
Close to Home: Investing in SRJC means investing in Sonoma County’s workforce
2026
October
6
Close