[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
65°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Sonoma Index-Tribune
City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Sonoma voters are participating in their first district-based elections this November.
The push toward representation by districts came in late 2024 after the Sonoma City Council voluntarily chose to mitigate potential risk of legal challenges faced by other cities in the county.
The basis for such challenges is the belief that at-large elections violate the California Voter Rights Act by failing to create conditions where minority residents who wish to represent their community via elected office have an equal opportunity to do so.
Essentially, district-based elections are meant to encourage more people to run for office, but that didn’t happen in Sonoma’s first year of such elections.
In two of the city’s three council district races — because the only candidates seeking seats in districts 3 and 5 are currently on council — the city has already suspended these races and appointed council members John Gurney and Ron Wellander, respectively, to represent those districts once the terms begin next year.
The District 1 race, though, is a different story. Three candidates are vying for this new seat in the election: Julian Mackie, a nonprofit executive director, Peggy Hutton, a small business owner, and Michael Menefee, a retired firefighter-paramedic.
With Menefee running a quiet, almost non-existent campaign, Hutton and Mackie have come out as the frontrunners in the race.
[City of Sonoma District 1 council candidates, left, Julian Mackie and, right, Peggy Hutton.]
Julian Mackie, left, and Peggy Hutton, right
Although they have different ties to the city — Mackie, who grew up in Santa Rosa, permanently moved to Sonoma in March, while Hutton has lived in the city for more than 40 years — they share similar goals for it and are running on platforms that call for more affordable housing, as well as wildfire resiliency and fiscal acuity within City Hall.
But where the two candidates differ is in their approach and knowledge.
Because of Julian Mackie’s big-picture, beyond-the-usual ideas about the city of Sonoma and its future, The Press Democrat is endorsing him for Sonoma City Council District 1.
As evidenced in the Sonoma County League of Women Voters candidate forum, for example, Mackie’s approach to housing — the promotion of infill projects versus Hutton’s suggestion to utilize annexation — is more in-line with the community’s historical desires while continuing to protect the area’s open spaces.
Out of Sonoma’s nearly 6,000 housing units, just 400 are identified as “affordable.” Comprehending a decades-long push to grow the urban growth boundary, Mackie seeks to make use of underused buildings and property to bring much-needed affordable housing into the city. He also aims to proactively work with experienced affordable housing developers and use the city’s existing housing trust fund to advance projects.
Mackie’s plans to promote the city to increase tourism in order to increase transient occupancy — or hotel bed — and sales tax revenues is a tactical strategy, but it should move forward only if the city has those marketing dollars to spare. In a city known for maintaining strict local regulations aimed at preserving its historic character, Hutton suggests making Sonoma more business-friendly.
Mackie’s expertise and experience with budgeting — he is executive director of the nonprofit Sonoma Valley Commons — will be integral for the City Council as it moves forward, facing growing structural costs and stagnating revenue.
Although he is not from Sonoma — a trait that some might consider blasphemous — his passion is pure and his understanding of the community comes from a deep love for the place he now calls home.
The Press Democrat endorses Julian Mackie for Sonoma City Council District 1.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
[Candidates for state superintendent of public instruction: Chino Valley School Board President Sonja Shaw and California Department of Education senior policy advisor Richard Barrera.]
Endorsement: Elect Richard Barrera California’s superintendent of public instruction
[An aerial view shows ships anchored off the coast of Khasab in Oman’s Musandam Governorate, near the Strait of Hormuz, on . (AFP/GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA/TNS)]
Guest Editorial: Don’t let hubris get in the way of ending the Iran war
2026
October
9
Close