[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Marquez, Parker and Carter can…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
75°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Marquez, Parker and Carter can steer Cloverdale in the right direction
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[Downtown Cloverdale (The Press Democrat file)]
The Press Democrat file
Downtown Cloverdale (The Press Democrat file)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
It’s no surprise to Cloverdale residents that its city council is a bit dysfunctional.
Since a outburst on the dais, council members have struggled to simply get along, let alone pass meaningful policy. Council members have accused each other of racism and misogyny during meetings and made far worse allegations off-record.
The tempestuous, childlike bickering between the two council’s two factions — a so-called “good ol’ boys club” and a scrappy progressive camp — comes as leadership courts a 266-acre, 605-home development that would bring a complete facelift for the south end of the city. It also occurs as the council confronts — or hides from — an impending major shift in water supply from the Eel River within the next two decades.
With this behavior, it’s no wonder seven candidates — plus two incumbents — stepped up for this year’s city council race (it’s also no wonder Mayor Brian Wheeler didn’t seek re-election).
Cloverdale residents will vote for three candidates in the city’s final at-large election before district-based elections are put into place in 2028.
Cloverdale has had strong leadership for the past six years, re-electing a council member who has served as the city’s mayor for four of those. But that kind of unchecked leadership needs balances and pushback, especially as power has grown, become more bifurcated and made the council’s work less transparent to the public and media alike.
[Andres Marquez was appointed to the Cloverdale City Council after...]
Andres Marquez was appointed to the Cloverdale City Council after longtime Council member Gus Wolters resigned.
[Retiring Cloverdale Police Chief Chris Parker visits with dispatch supervisor...]
Retiring Cloverdale Police Chief Chris Parker visits with dispatch supervisor Caitlin ‘Cat” Jensen, during Parker’s last day, . (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)
Show Caption
1 of 2
Andres Marquez was appointed to the Cloverdale City Council after longtime Council member Gus Wolters resigned.
Expand
The Press Democrat believes that incumbent Andrés Marquez, former Police Chief Chris Parker and political newcomer Will Carter can provide those checks and balances and enable the council to once again serve the city’s constituents. We recommend a vote for Marquez, Parker and Carter.
Marquez is a current Cloverdale City Council member who was appointed to the council in after finishing as the runner-up in the 2024 election. During his short tenure on the council, Marquez has been a fierce advocate for safeguarding a regional water supply, plus transparency and policy change for the council. His efforts have drawn some blow-back from other council members at times, leaving Marquez visibly frustrated on the dais. But his toil has been worthwhile: the city council has updated its council member policies and is bringing Spanish translation to council meetings. Marquez is a true proponent for the people. He would continue to grow as a public servant in a full four-year term.
While Parker flirts with the membership of that “good ol’ boys club” (he is endorsed by Vice Mayor Todd Lands), The Press Democrat believes his leadership skills and integrity as the city’s former police chief would serve the city well. Parker has led Cloverdale through some of its most difficult eras and catastrophes, including the 2019 Kincade Fire, which completely cut off Cloverdale from the rest of the county. Parker has extensive experience with the city’s budgeting process and, with a seat at the table, could bring his ideas for managing the city’s deficit to the forefront. Our hope is that Parker will continue to serve the people’s best interest, and not the interest of a select few.
Carter, while new to politics, has extensive leadership experience serving the city. Has has climbed the ranks of the Cloverdale Kiwanis Club and is getting ready to serve as its co-President. While politically green — especially compared to some of his opponents — Carter’s youth would bring a fresh voice to the council that has not been heard or represented in decades. His youth and inexperience are also not a hindrance — he envisions a future for Cloverdale unbridled by the current drama on the dais, where the council can serve the residents to increase road safety, promote “rational development” and balance the city’s budget.
While Kimberly Kern, who has been fiercely campaigning on bringing those checks and balances and much-needed change to the dais, The Press Democrat cautions against a yes vote for the school superintendent. In recent years, Kern’s leadership and decision-making while serving as the superintendent at Pope Valley Elementary School District isolated Latino community members and was the center of a Napa County Grand Jury report.
The same goes for Steve Kawa. He has decades of political experience — serving in various roles in the San Francisco Mayor’s office, managing Gov. Gavin Newsom’s Protocol Foundation, which fundraises and helps pay for the governor’s out-of-state trips, and serving as the chair of the California High-Speed Rail Authority. But his alignment with Lands, whose favor with residents continues to slip, is a misguided step and should serve as a caution for residents desperately seeking change from their government officials.
The additional candidates — Kelly Spagnola, Colleen Shields, Jenn Neylon and incumbent Marjorie Morgenstern — are formidable opponents, but lack either the experience or expertise needed to bring city leadership back into focus.
For Cloverdale City Council, The Press Democrat recommends a vote for Andres Marquez, Chris Parker and Will Carter.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[How long the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors should retain their text messages is up for debate and has been an issue since the 2017 Tubbs fire. (Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat)]
PD Editorial: Texts about Sonoma County business belong to the public, not the trash folder
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
2026
October
5
Close