[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Rohnert Park can forge strong…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
71°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Rohnert Park can forge strong future with Khoury Tams, Hollingsworth Adams
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Rohnert Park is at a crossroads.
As though looking into a crystal ball, leaders can see a bright future: a vivid downtown brimming with tourists and locals alike, shopping at new businesses and restaurants, their patronage dropping sales tax revenues into city coffers.
At the same time that future is precarious and like crystal, could easily be shattered.
Void of needed additional revenue sources, the city where people have moved to, raised their kids and grown to love could look much different.
While the city’s proposed sales tax measure is part of the equation to future success, so too is its city council. This year, voters from District 2 and District 5 are being asked to elect candidates to join Gerard Giudice, Samantha Rodriguez and Jackie Elward (unless Elward wins her campaign for District 12 state assembly).
[Linda Khoury Tams is running for Rohnert Park City Council, District 2. Tams has served on the Chamber of Commerce and Rohnert Park City Advisory Committee. (Photo provided)]
Linda Khoury Tams is running for Rohnert Park City Council, District 2. Tams has served on the Chamber of Commerce and Rohnert Park City Advisory Committee. (Photo provided)
District 2
Voters in District 2 have the opportunity to bring a new elected official into the fray as Council Member Emily Sanborn, who is currently serving as mayor, chose not to run for re-election. The candidates are Linda Khoury Tams, Michael DeSimone and Paul Carey.
DeSimone is a healthcare director and realtor whose goals are to foster economic growth and government accountability and transparency. DeSimone says he wants “residents to have a stronger connection to their local government.” DeSimone is known for his efforts working alongside neighbors protesting the growth of the Resynergi plastics facility in the SoMo Village area of the city.
Carey is an operations instructor who contracts for the Coast Guard. He believes Rohnert Park’s leadership has “lost sight of taking care of what we already have.” Campaigning for change, he says it is “time to get back to the basics that make our community work for the people who actually live here.”
Carey has more than 20 years’ experience in the military, as a public school teacher, government analyst and Cub Scouts leader.
Khoury Tams is a business owner and realtor whose goals are economic growth and public safety and crime prevention. She noted the city’s finances as a barrier to Rohnert Park’s future.
Khoury Tams is endorsed by Congressman Mike Thompson, all five current city council members and Sonoma County District 2 Supervisor David Rabbitt.
While DeSimone could be an asset to the council, Khoury Tams’ experiences both on the Rohnert Park Chamber of Commerce, Rohnert Park City Advisory Committee and Rancho Cotate Booster Club shows she has an understanding of how the city works — and how it doesn’t. The council and the city’s residents would benefit from a representative with a strong civic understanding and who could serve as a liaison to the Rohnert Park business community. The Press Democrat recommends Linda Khoury Tams.
District 5
In District 5, voters can choose between two-term incumbent Susan Hollingsworth Adams and political newcomers Mauricio Barreto and Arlene Linder.
[Rohnert Park Councilmember Susan Hollingsworth Adams (Susan Hollingsworth Adams)]
Rohnert Park Councilmember Susan Hollingsworth Adams (Susan Hollingsworth Adams)
Linder, 89, moved back to Rohnert Park last year after living out of state for 15 years. She considers herself lucky to live in an affordable senior housing apartment complex, but recognizes that not every resident in the city is as fortunate.
Baretto grew up in Rohnert Park, put himself through the police academy, then spent 14 years experience as a peace officer, working for the Lake County Sheriff’s Office and Clearlake Police Department. He says those efforts and experiences enables him to “understand the importance of leadership, accountability, compassion and listening to the people you serve.” His priorities for the city include supporting and retaining qualified public safety professionals, addressing homelessness, improving traffic safety, encouraging thoughtful development and managing city finances responsibly.
Hollingsworth Adam’s goals, if re-elected, are to focus on public safety and crime prevention and investing in the city’s water services, streets and parks. She also noted that a top priority is to continue to usher in the CenterCal downtown project, saying the city “must take our time and get it right to ensure the character, livability and long-term success of our future downtown. While retail shops, restaurants and a boutique hotel are important, I will seek a thoughtful balance with open space, pedestrian comfort, accessibility, design and meaningful amenities.”
Although residents are frustrated with the city’s current financial status and might desire blaming and punishing council members, doing so would be disingenuous, especially in Hollingsworth Adams’ case. The two-time council member has been a fiscal stalwart, thinking critically about every dollar the council has to spend. The Press Democrat endorses Susan Hollingsworth Adams.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
[Candidates for state superintendent of public instruction: Chino Valley School Board President Sonja Shaw and California Department of Education senior policy advisor Richard Barrera.]
Endorsement: Elect Richard Barrera California’s superintendent of public instruction
2026
September
30
Close