[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
64°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Kent Porter / The Press Democrat
The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Nine years ago, a new breed of destructive wildfire clusters ripped through parts of Napa County. The Tubbs, Nuns and Atlas fires of , which burned more than 80,000 acres, still live rent-free in the minds of many Napans.
“Almost everyone in Napa — whether a city dweller or living in south county — has some personal connection to or was impacted by the fires,” Joe Nordlinger, the chief executive officer of Napa Communities FireWise Foundation told The Press Democrat Editorial Board.
Since then, Nordlinger and his team have worked tirelessly to prepare the community for the next big fire — of which there have been four major and a handful of minor conflagrations.
But they haven’t been as bad as 2017, thanks in part to Nordlinger’s efforts. Under his leadership, the county’s fire safe councils network grew from seven to 26. From those councils, Napa FireWise formed a countywide CWPP, or Community Wildfire Protection Plan, creating a centralized platform to help eliminate fragmentation among entities focused on wildfire resilience.
They could do more, but funding is an issue.
That’s why he, along with Melanie Parker, chief executive officer of the Land Trust of Napa County, are asking Napa voters for help.
Measure B is a proposed new half-cent sales tax that would bring $23 million annually into the county for wildfire prevention and open space preservation maintenance. As a citizens’ initiative sales tax, it needs a simple majority to pass. The sales tax would go into effect on and end in 2045.
Half of the revenue would go toward grants for fire prevention and resiliency projects. The other half would fund the Napa County Regional Park and Open Space District’s efforts to protect and preserve Napa’s open spaces.
Related Articles
Press Democrat endorsements
Why are the two forces joining up?
Teaming with Napa FireWise bridges the gap between ecological land management and fire safety expertise. As Parker said, wildfire resilience and conservation cannot be achieved in isolation. Protecting watersheds, managing large parks, restoring overgrown open spaces and maintaining buffer zones around towns are directly linked to reducing fire risks for adjacent communities.
Such work is vital to the continued protection of Napa’s residents and lands from the next big fire. The Press Democrat recommends a yes vote for Napa County’s Measure B.
Today’s conservation practices have shifted from strictly preserving land to active management. But active land management plans — from fuel reduction projects, forest thinning and controlled grazing — require funding that neither Napa FireWise or the open space district has. Both organizations have adept grant writers and have been able to manage a lot with county funding. For example, Napa FireWise has crossed off 347 or nearly 600 fire mitigation projects since 2017. But those projects require continued maintenance — and maintenance requires continued funding.
The open space district has been criticized by the Napa County Farm Bureau for failing to consistently maintain its land, in some cases putting “agricultural land at greater risk for fire and pest issues.” Parker said a consistent funding source would empower the open space district to perform a higher level of active land stewardship the Farm Bureau desires and lands deserve.
Such sales tax efforts, brought forth by the county, have failed in the past. A previous county-sponsored attempt to pass a quarter-cent sales tax measure for fire maintenance work — the 2022 Measure L — fell short of a needed two-thirds majority, as did two previous attempts to pass quarter-cent tax measures for open space work in 2020 and 2017. But each of those failed measures received well over 50% of the vote.
As climate change continues to make North Bay summers hotter and dryer, this new funding source could help bring continued peace of mind to Napa County residents. The Press Democrat recommends a yes vote on Measure B.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[How long the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors should retain their text messages is up for debate and has been an issue since the 2017 Tubbs fire. (Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat)]
PD Editorial: Texts about Sonoma County business belong to the public, not the trash folder
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[Candidates for state superintendent of public instruction: Chino Valley School Board President Sonja Shaw and California Department of Education senior policy advisor Richard Barrera.]
Endorsement: Elect Richard Barrera California’s superintendent of public instruction
2026
October
8
Close