[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Yes on Measure I, Windsor’s sales…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
65°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Yes on Measure I, Windsor’s sales tax would provide a lifeline to town
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[Windsor leaders are floating a business license tax, in addition to a 1% sales tax in to help the town rebuild anemic city coffers. (Press Democrat file)]
Windsor leaders are considering asking voters to support a 1% sales tax in to help the town rebuild anemic city coffers. (Press Democrat file)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Measure I, Windsor’s proposed one-cent sales tax, has been a long time coming.
For its 33-year history, the town of Windsor has operated on a mostly self-sustaining budget, making it through some of the toughest economic times in modern history, including the 2008 Recession, with fiscal conservancy and acuity.
Even through the past arduous 20 years, town leadership has provided residents with some of the best parks and recreation facilities in the county, building residents a new dirt bike pump track and pickleball courts while maintaining its public swimming pool. Residents have enjoyed key events that help foster the town’s unique community, including the Windsor Day Parade in May and Summer Nights on the Green, because they have been partially sponsored by the town’s general fund.
Still, town expenses began to outstrip revenue after the one-two punch of the Kincade Fire and COVID-19 pandemic. The budget crisis came at a time when the town had expected economic recovery. In its approved 2019-2021 budget, town leaders wrote they were looking forward to “conservative growth.”
They got the opposite.
Revenue from hotel and sales taxes sank as people traveled less and shops shuttered.
At the same time, expenses for public safety, insurance, construction and materials climbed — driven heavily by inflation and unfunded state mandates.
Now, for the first time, Town leaders are turning to residents for help.
Measure I on the ballot is a one-cent sales tax that would generate about $5 million a year. The revenue would go directly into the town’s general fund, meaning it could be spent on daily town operations.
Town leaders did not get to this decision lightly.
Prior to finalizing the 2021-2023 budget, leaders considered placing the sales tax on the 2024 ballot. But when polling showed the sales tax lacked support, officials began to make operational cuts. Over the last two years, they have reduced expenses by 10% in each department and dipped into reserves to backfill its budgetary gap.
But these measures are not sustainable, could bankrupt the town, and create a level of service citizens would grow to disdain. Last summer, residents showed up to the town council meeting en masse when leaders threatened to cut the hours of the senior pool.
Pool hours weren’t cut. But other funding was.
Some critics of the measure say the town’s budget issues are self-made, caused by bloated executive salaries and loss of taxpayer dollars wasted on projects that never came to fruition, leaving the Town Green barren and without main attractions that could boost the town’s bottom line.
While leaders do need to focus on economic development, it needs to have the financial cushion to be able to do so. If the town continues to operate in crisis mode, digging out will be infinitely more difficult.
The sales tax measure is an opportunity for Windsor residents to directly weigh in on the future of the town. Simply put: preserving the town many residents love requires more funding. The Press Democrat recommends a yes vote on Measure I.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
[Candidates for state superintendent of public instruction: Chino Valley School Board President Sonja Shaw and California Department of Education senior policy advisor Richard Barrera.]
Endorsement: Elect Richard Barrera California’s superintendent of public instruction
2026
September
18
Close