[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Herrod, López are best choices…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
71°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Herrod, López are best choices for Healdsburg’s future
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[From left, Healdsburg City Council Member Chris Herrod and Healdsburg High School math teacher Mathew Lopez. (submitted photos)]
From left, Healdsburg City Council Member Chris Herrod and Healdsburg High School math teacher Mathew Lopez. (submitted photos)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
While the city of Healdsburg has faced relative economic prosperity over the last decade, weathering difficult financial periods and natural disasters alike, pending shifts to Sonoma County’s wine industry could soon be a driving force of change in Sonoma County’s fifth-largest city.
Winegrape production and prices have declined by 10%, forcing growers to remove more than 58,000 vineyard acres. Already grappling with a population that’s drinking less alcohol, Healdsburg’s wine-based tourism businesses will soon feel the ripple effect of this drastic downsizing.
City coffers will feel the pinch, too.
This reality should be at the forefront of voters’ minds charged with electing council members in Healdsburg’s first district-based elections this year. Voters will elect two candidates this November, each from distinct districts; district 2 and district 4.
District 2 abuts the southeast portion of district 1, running along Piper Street, looping around Tee Drive and Greens Drive, continuing along South Fitch Mountain Road, and finishing along the western and southern edges of the city.
District 4 is just north of district 3, bound by Powell Avenue on the south, the city’s border on the east and north, district 1 on the west and part of district 5 on the north. The boundaries between District 5 and District 4 are Sunnyvale Drive/University Avenue/Terrace Boulevard/Lupine Road/Fuschia Street/Lily Street/March Avenue/Healdsburg Avenue/Powell Avenue.
Chris Herrod, who currently serves on the city council, is the only candidate running to represent District 4.
Three candidates — Healdsburg High School teacher Mathew López, real estate agent Alex Wood and advertising producer Scott Pratt — are each vying to represent district 2.
Pratt has lived in Healdsburg since 2010, moving to the city from southern California. If elected, Pratt has many items to tackle on his to-do list, from developing “appropriate affordable low- and middle-income housing alternatives,” and digging “deeper into the use of Flock camera data,” to expanding water security, climate protection and climate change preparedness. While he’s endorsed by Sonoma County Conservation Action and the Sonoma County Democratic Club, he is not endorsed by any other sitting city council members, saying he believes accepting such endorsements is a conflict of interest.
Wood, the son of former city council member and state assemblymember Jim Wood, grew up in Healdsburg. He says that “running for city council is part of my work to pay it forward and prepare” the city for the next 30 years. His main priorities are affordable housing development and small business support and economic growth, noting that he wants to “help build a resilient community where our families, seniors and small businesses have the resources they need to thrive.” Wood, who currently sits on the Healdsburg Planning Commission, is endorsed by the rest of the board, as well as City Council Member Ron Edwards and Vice Mayor Evelyn Mitchell.
López, a bilingual speaker, is running on a campaign of sustainable housing, smart city planning, economic development and improved transit. While he might be a green politician — he has some civic experience serving as vice chair on the city’s SMART Station Area Committees — his fresh ideas and youthful attitude are exactly what the Healdsburg City Council needs.
For too long, the council has been dominated by upper-class homeowners who sometimes have a difficult time thinking outside of their property-ownership box. López has been open about the struggles of being middle class: making just too much to qualify for financial assistance, but not enough to dream about homeownership. The rally cry is reminiscent of the powerful, middle-class messages brought forth by 2024 candidate Heather Hannan-Kramer (a candidate who would have brought much-needed change to the council, too).
“The everyday work of a city isn’t partisan. Clean streets, safe neighborhoods and reliable utilities matter to all of us. My commitment is to advocate for the whole community on practical solutions, shared benefits and a focus on what serves residents’ needs,” López says.
López is endorsed by the North Bay Labor Council, Council Member Ariel Kelley, Mayor Chris Herrod, former council member Osvaldo Jimenez and more.
The Press Democrat also recommends a yes vote for Mathew López for Healdsburg district 2 city council member.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[How long the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors should retain their text messages is up for debate and has been an issue since the 2017 Tubbs fire. (Beth Schlanker / The Press Democrat)]
PD Editorial: Texts about Sonoma County business belong to the public, not the trash folder
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
2026
September
22
Close