[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Santa Rosa has no other choice…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
72°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Santa Rosa has no other choice than to approve Measure L
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[This file image shows a Santa Rosa firefighter. The department said a man died after being hit by a fallen branch during windy conditions. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat file)]
Santa Rosa Fire Department engineer-paramedic Bennett Leda exits Engine Nine after backing he engine in to Station One, . (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
Santa Rosa leaders have painted a pretty bleak picture.
After massive cuts to their staffing and departments for three consecutive years, eliminating 82 positions, consolidating departments and restructuring pension liability, expenses for running the city continue to outstrip revenue.
Although the efforts saved $25 million, amounting to roughly 10% of the city’s general fund, long-term financial pressure continues to strain the city’s budget.
Unlike other cities in Sonoma County that have faced budget strains, Santa Rosa’s public safety departments have not been spared during these last three years, with each department losing a handful of positions.
But leaders now say if the city cannot bring in more revenue, both the city’s police and fire departments — which comprise roughly two-thirds of the city’s general fund budget — would face more cuts — this time more brutal.
The fire department would lose roughly $2.1 million next year. The fallout would be the closure of one engine. By 2030, the department would lose another $5.8 million, forcing the city to begin ‘brown-outs’ of its fire stations — or rotating closures. Such a practice hasn’t been in place since the Great Recession.
The police department is slated to lose $3.1 million next year. Chief John Cregan said the loss would mean staffing numbers would go back down to that of the 1980s — a time when the city had roughly 100,000 fewer people. The reductions would come from the department’s special units, including the Special Enforcement Team and Gang Crimes Team, that have been integral in keeping guns and drug off Santa Rosa streets.
By 2030, the police department would lose another $7.1 million.
Measure L — which would increase the city’s current half-cent sales tax to a one-cent sales tax — would fix that. If approved, the sales tax would bring in roughly $46 million into city coffers.
There’s no doubt that the city’s sales pitch is doom and gloom and that it also feels too rehearsed. The Press Democrat heard a similar story just two years ago when leadership asked voters to approve Measures EE and FF — updates (and increases) to the city’s general business tax and transient occupancy, or hotel bed, tax.
This time, they say the one-cent sales tax would be enough to fill the current operating gap — so they wouldn’t be coming back to voters for more.
The Press Democrat believes city leadership. We also believe when they say the only other way to balance the budget is to cut the city’s public safety departments next year and in subsequent years. There is very little fat within the city’s government left to trim. Chief Financial Officer Scott Wagner said he’d cut the positions of the city’s executives, but noted that “it wouldn’t help. It wouldn’t cover the deficit.”
He also pointed out that over the last three years, the city has whittled down city administration staff by one-third.
For a city that has been saved by its public safety officers during one of the most horrific catastrophies in Santa Rosa’s recent history — a reduction in public safety staffing and service is not something residents should be willing to risk.
The editorial board understands that everything is expensive: gas is more than $6 a gallon, groceries are $75 a bag and healthcare costs are 10% higher this year than last year. The cost of living is not cheap right now and every penny counts. The city of Santa Rosa leadership understands that, too.
“No one is expecting this to be a popular measure,” Mayor Mark Stapp said. “This is a real choice for residents.”
The Press Democrat recommends a yes vote on Measure L.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
[Candidates for state superintendent of public instruction: Chino Valley School Board President Sonja Shaw and California Department of Education senior policy advisor Richard Barrera.]
Endorsement: Elect Richard Barrera California’s superintendent of public instruction
[An aerial view shows ships anchored off the coast of Khasab in Oman’s Musandam Governorate, near the Strait of Hormuz, on . (AFP/GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA/TNS)]
Guest Editorial: Don’t let hubris get in the way of ending the Iran war
2026
October
1
Close