[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Yes on AB: Support SRJC’s historic…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
72°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Yes on AB: Support SRJC’s historic $830 million bond with caution
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[High school students in the College and Career Access Program arrive for orientation at SRJC in Santa Rosa on . (Christopher Chung/The Press Democrat)]
High school students in the College and Career Access Program arrive for orientation at SRJC in Santa Rosa on . (Christopher Chung/The Press Democrat)
By Editorial Board
PUBLISHED: at PDT | UPDATED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
For the third time in 24 years, leaders at Santa Rosa Junior College are turning to the public for financial assistance.
In 2002, SRJC leadership sought the approval of a $251 million bond. Voters approved it.
A dozen years later, they went to the voters again, seeking a $410 million bond. Voters approved it.
Now — again — another 12 years later, they’re asking for more than double, seeking $830 million — the largest bond in Sonoma County history and one of the largest in the state.
The price tag is a sticker shock, but it’s important to remember the value that SRJC brings to Sonoma County and beyond: The college generates an economic impact of roughly $1.8 billion annually, representing more than 5% of Sonoma County’s gross regional product. Roughly one in 17 jobs in the county are filled by an SRJC alum or supported by college operations.
Students who attend the junior college gain about $7.20 in lifetime earnings for every dollar they spend on their education. And taxpayers receive about $1.40 back in direct benefits. Our region’s hospitals and doctor’s offices are filled with local nurses, our fire and police departments are staffed with new first responders, and our cities take new shape at the hands of skilled workers who earn trade certificates at SRJC.
If Measure AB is approved, the cost, spread out over the entire county to local homeowners, would continue to be $30 per $100,000 of assessed value of local property. Although these values vary from neighborhood to neighborhood, the typical Sonoma County homeowner is projected to pay less than $70 per year.
The Press Democrat believes that’s a fair price to continue to pay to extend the value the SRJC provides to the community. We recommend a yes vote on Measure AB.
But, our recommendation comes with caution and concern. In endorsing the school bond, we hope the college administration recognizes and appreciates the value of the community’s dollar, as well.
When the community approved Measure H in 2014, voters expected the money to be spent on students. Just three years later, those bond dollars were spent on labor union programs rather than education programs — a move that violated the public’s trust.
So far, school administrators have failed to identify a concrete list or plan for the $830 million. They turn to a long to-do list of facilities needs and projects that have not been touched by the previous bond dollars. The expense for those plans — $1.75 billion — more than double the bond’s expected revenue.
Replacing and modernizing infrastructure is estimated to cost $743 million. Construction and modernization of instructional facilities is slated at $803 million. Modernizing IT infrastructure and replacing hardware for the next decade is a cool $105 million. The college’s sustainability initiatives, which include HVAC, solar, glass and lighting projects, come in at $98 million.
School administrators have not said which of these projects would be prioritized, noting that it would be up to the community to decide how the dollars would be spent, once the bond is approved. But the administration was also adamant about their desire to keep the institution competitive with other institutions, maintaining focus on its “open access” mission by exploring potential future pathways, such as degrees in dental hygiene, which could help meet local workforce shortages.
While bond advocates framed the potential funding as not just a construction project, but a commitment to student success and a tool for disrupting intergenerational poverty, we wonder how much can actually be achieved. We are also concerned that leadership has bitten off more than it can chew, even with such a large lump sum potentially available to spend.
But we want to give them the benefit of the doubt, because we understand the value that SRJC brings to the region. By voting yes, residents must demand transparency and a say in how bond dollars are spent over the next decade before the institution comes back in another 12 years.
The Press Democrat recommends a Yes vote on Measure AB.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
[Candidates for state superintendent of public instruction: Chino Valley School Board President Sonja Shaw and California Department of Education senior policy advisor Richard Barrera.]
Endorsement: Elect Richard Barrera California’s superintendent of public instruction
[An aerial view shows ships anchored off the coast of Khasab in Oman’s Musandam Governorate, near the Strait of Hormuz, on . (AFP/GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA/TNS)]
Guest Editorial: Don’t let hubris get in the way of ending the Iran war
2026
September
21
Close