[The Press Democrat]
Editorials | Endorsement: Yes on Measure H, keep Sonoma…
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Login
Search
65°F
eEdition
Editorials
Opinion
Editorial
Close to Home
Letters
Pete Golis
Trending:
Opinion
Editorials
Endorsement: Yes on Measure H, keep Sonoma County regional parks funded
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
[Hikers navigate muddy spots on the West Wind Trail in Helen Putnam Regional Park in Petaluma on . (Beth Schlanker/The Press Democrat)]
Beth Schlanker/The Press Democrat
Hikers navigate muddy spots on the West Wind Trail in Helen Putnam Regional Park in Petaluma on . (Beth Schlanker/The Press Democrat)
By The Editorial Board | opinion@scng.com | Chicago Tribune
PUBLISHED: at PDT
Getting your Trinity Audio player ready...
The Sonoma County’s regional parks sales tax delivers a lot for a little.
The one-eighth cent sales tax — that’s about 3 cents for every $25 purchase — was approved by nearly 73% of voters in . Since then, those extra nickels and dimes have generated more than $15 million annually — roughly $70 million between 2019 and 2024 — to put toward maintenance and new infrastructure of both city and county parks and securing parkland and open space.
In the five-year time span, park-goers have seen improvements in city and county parks alike.
There are new fields and sports courts at Petaluma Larson Park, new trails at Helen Putnam Regional Park, an updated tennis court at the Occidental Community Center, a new paddleboard, canoe and kayak launch at Guerneville River Park. Trails — partially burned over by the 2019 Kincade Fire — have been rebuilt at Windsor’s Foothill Regional Park.
Permanent bathrooms have replaced portables at Cloverdale River Park, new soccer fields beckon at Sebastopol’s Ragle Ranch Regional Park, repaved trails guide hikers at Santa Rosa’s Spring Lake Regional Park, a years-long major renovation at Sonoma’s Maxwell Farms Regional Parks is complete, and hikers can now enjoy updated trails along the coastline at Pinnacle Gulch and Doran Regional Park.
The department has also used the revenue to secure matching funds that enabled the purchase of massive swaths of green space in west Sonoma County, including the 2,030-acre Monte Rio Redwoods Regional Park and Open Space Preserve, which tripled in size in 2025.
[The East Sound of Music trail in the Monte Rio Redwoods Regional Park & Open Space Preserve near Occidental on . (Christopher Chung/The Press Democrat)]
The East Sound of Music trail in the Monte Rio Redwoods Regional Park & Open Space Preserve near Occidental on . (Christopher Chung/The Press Democrat)
These updates were only made possible because of Measure M. Prior to the 2018 sales tax, parks were grossly underfunded, which was highlighted across the county’s dilapidated, yet oft-visited parks.
If you ask Bert Whitaker, director of Sonoma County Regional Parks, their work isn’t done.
“We need to be planning much further into the future,” Whitaker said, adding that he constantly works with each city’s park directors to help their own missions.
But funding is key. While the current sales tax doesn’t expire until 2027, the Sonoma County Regional Parks Foundation is asking voters to renew it this year. A two-thirds majority is required.
The Press Democrat supported the regional parks sales tax in 2018 and we recommend a yes vote on the ballot.
Unlike other ballot measures, this is not a new tax; it’s an extension of a countywide sales tax we already pay. If passed, one-third of the money will continue to go to city parks, one-fourth will go toward maintenance and safety of county parks, 23.4% will go toward improving access to county parks and 18.3% will go toward protecting natural resources here in Sonoma County.
No formal opposition to the extended sales tax exists, but we understand the desire to keep every penny during uncertain economic times. And perhaps you’re not visiting the parks as much because the annual parks pass ($69, or roughly 19 cents a day) or daily $8 fee has been cut from the family monthly budget.
With gas around $6 a gallon and the average California family of four spending around $1,500 on groceries a month, we get it.
But this is a sales tax that does pay for its benefits. For example: You can check out a free daypass from the Sonoma County Regional Library (another taxpayer-supported institution) and escape to your favorite park or explore somewhere new, thanks in part to the sales tax.
Unfettered access to one of the most beautiful places in the world? That’s a lot of value for an eighth of a cent. The Press Democrat recommends a yes vote on Measure H.
Share this:
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Share on X (Opens in new window) X
Print (Opens in new window) Print
Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Most Popular
More in Editorials
[Californians who vote yes on Prop. 40 should vote no on Props. 41 and 42. If they do not, they vote against themselves. (Getty images)]
Endorsement: If you support the billionaire tax, vote no on Props. 41 and 42
[City Hall will be closed on in observance of the Independence Day holiday. (Sonoma Index-Tribune)]
Endorsement: Mackie would bring new energy to Sonoma City Council
[The Glass Fire, seen here burning through a Napa County vineyard , is one of several major wildfires that helped drive the county’s new climate plan. (Kent Porter / The Press Democrat)]
Endorsement: Yes on B, Keep Napa fire resilient and maintain its open space
[Candidates for state superintendent of public instruction: Chino Valley School Board President Sonja Shaw and California Department of Education senior policy advisor Richard Barrera.]
Endorsement: Elect Richard Barrera California’s superintendent of public instruction
2026
September
19
Close