
Print This Page
Text Size
Scroll To Top
Share This Page
Share this page on Facebook
Share this page on Linkedin
Share this page on X/Twitter
Member Login
[League of Women Voters of Palo Alto logo]
Join/Renew Donate
HomeCandidate Forums & Pro/Cons
CANDIDATE FORUMS & PRO/CONS
Educated and informed voters are the key to our democracy. We invite everyone to participate in our local Leagues’ nonpartisan candidate forums and pro/con ballot issues discussions.
[podium with microphones in front of U.S. flag]
Candidate Forums: Sign-up and View
Candidate Forums are one of voters' only opportunities to listen to candidates offer more than just a brief sound bite.
Hear what candidates are saying.
Form your own opinions of the candidates, based on your own observations.
Get engaged in the political process, using critical and analytical abilities to examine the candidates.
COMING UP:
LWVSSMC: -
Candidate Forum: CA Assembly District 23
The League of Women Voters of South San Mateo County invites the community to a nonpartisan candidate forum for California Assembly District 23. Both candidates, MARC BERMAN and DAVID G. JOHNSON, have confirmed their attendance and will share their views on the issues that matter most to our community. DETAILS HERE | REGISTER HERE | Submit a question by on .
LWV Los Altos - Mountain View:
Santa Clara Valley Water District 7
The League of Women Voters of Los Altos - Mountain View invites you to a forum for two candidates running for District #7 on the Santa Clara Valley Water Board of Trustees. More information will be provided closer to the election. Live streaming here. (Click the “notify” button to be reminded.)
View Recorded Forums & Pros/Cons Discussions
Pros/Cons Presentation
Watch on YouTube & Navigate Using Chapters
Palo Alto School District Candidate
Palo Alto City Council Candidate Forum
Pros/Cons & Positions: State & Local
General Election
LOCAL: LWV Palo Alto
[cubberley center]
Measure J: SALES TAX
(Cubberley Community Ctr.)
This measure authorizes a new sales tax in Palo Alto.
QUESTION: Should the City of Palo Alto levy an additional 0.5% (½%) sales tax on sales and use transactions in Palo Alto to fund the acquisition of seven acres of the Cubberley campus and the improvement of the City-owned portion of the campus, and for other general purposes?
The LWV of Palo Alto supports Measure J, based on its alignment with several national, state, and local League Position Statements, and study on a local level. We agree that the documented community needs and potential citywide benefits of repairing, renovating, and expanding Cubberley Center outweigh concerns regarding Measure J's funding mechanism, lack of a sunset, lack of a legal spending guarantee, and the equity implications of a sales tax.
Read the Measure J Pro/Cons here.
REGIONAL: LWV Bay Area
[CalTrain]
SB 63: Regional Transit Measure
A Regional Sales Tax Measure that would impose a sales tax in Alameda, Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara counties.
QUESTION: To prevent major service cuts to BART and other transit, avoid increased traffic, and reduce pollution by:
Preserving BART, Caltrain, VTA, SamTrans, AC Transit, Muni, and other transit services for everyone, including workers, students, seniors, and persons with disabilities;
Supporting transit safety, cleanliness, affordability, and reliability;
Repairing targeted roads and potholes; and
Requiring financial transparency, oversight, and accountability;
shall the measure enacting a 0.5% sales tax in Alameda, Contra Costa, San Mateo, and Santa Clara counties and a 1% sales tax in San Francisco for 14 years, generating approximately $980,000,000 annually, be adopted?
The LWV of the Bay Area supports SB63 - Regional Transit Measure - read why here.
Read the full Regional Transit Measure Pros/Cons here.
STATE: LWV California Education Fund
[LWVC EF pros cons]
In this election, California voters will choose a Governor, and other representatives for national, state, and local government. Voters will decide if judges on the state's Supreme Court should keep their positions.
California voters will also be deciding on 14 state propositions that are explained in this PROS/CONS. Five of the propositions were placed on the ballot by the state legislature, and other propositions have been placed on the ballot by people who collected enough signatures.
Visit VOTE411.org to see everything on your ballot, your polling place, and unbiased information on all your voting choices.
The State League has endorsed positions on the 14 ballot measures.
VIEW THE SLIDE PRESENTATION HERE
[League of Women Voters of Palo Alto logo]
Share This Page
Share this page on Facebook
Share this page on Linkedin
Share this page on X/Twitter