2026 ORA Voter Guide
Oakland Rising Action Voter Guide
In English
In Spanish
In Chinese
OAKLAND CANDIDATES
Oakland Mayor
Barbara Lee
Barbara Lee is Moving Oakland Forward!
As Mayor of Oakland, Lee has implemented multiple campaign promises that have moved Oakland forward.
Barbara Lee’s progressive leadership is essential to improving the dysfunction in City Hall. In just two years as Mayor, Lee has launched multiple public programs to address our city’s problems, implemented public safety strategies, restored youth programming & made serving Oakland Youth a priority, and, most notably, cracked down on illegal dumping by cleaning our streets.
Barbara Lee has secured millions to advance economic development across the Town, and has a strategy to support unhoused residents, not criminalize them. She has advanced cultural investments, arts highlights, and civic pride as an Oaklander, and brought visibility to our amazing cultural events.
Most importantly, Lee has advanced good governance for Oakland, especially fiscal actions to ensure voter-approved dollars work faster for us.
Barbara Lee’s leadership and commitment across decades of experience position her as the progressive champion we need to stabilize mayoral leadership for Oakland’s future.
Learn More
School Board District 2
Jennifer Brouhard
About Jennifer
As School Board President, Jennifer has led the board to work together to advance the structural changes OUSD needs for long-term success.
A dedicated educator and historian, Jennifer began her career as a special education and history teacher to students in grades 4–8. Jennifer is a lifelong union activist, serving three terms on the OEA Executive Board, one term as OEA Secretary, and more than 20 years as a site representative.
In 2022, she ran and was elected to the OUSD Board as a former teacher and advocate for students and district staff. Her colleagues made her Board President in her first term.
In just one term, under Jennifer’s leadership:
OUSD has made tremendous strides in stabilizing the district’s finances.
Staffed every classroom in every Oakland school 99%
Not one public school closed.
With four decades of experience as an Oakland educator, parent, grandparent, union leader, and school board member, Jennifer’s deep understanding of OUSD and its leadership is critical to moving our schools toward a healthier, stronger future.
Learn More
School Board District 6
Valarie Bachelor
About Valarie
As Vice President of the Board, Valarie has been instrumental in building the policies and partnerships OUSD needs to keep its promises to Oakland students and families.
In her first term, Valarie has focused on completing major unfinished priorities in the district, including expanding transitional kindergarten, long-term planning for unused properties, implementing Oakland Youth Vote, and increasing funding and coordination for violence prevention programs.
She has also
Led the OUSD Sanctuary Policy for LGBTQ+ students and staff
Authored and implemented OUSD’s ICE-Free Zone Protocol
Led the board to strengthen budget practices in OUSD.
Valarie believes every Oakland student deserves a safe, supportive, academically enriching public school. She is running for re-election to keep delivering Oakland values and proven results for District 6.
Learn More
CALIFORNIA PROPOSITIONS
1
YES
[noun_Home_1972554 (1)]
$11.25 Billion Bond to continue building affordable homes for Californians.
2
YES
[368-3685834_voting-drawing-right-transparent-background-fist-icon-hd]
Save for CA’s Future. Allow the state to deposit more money into the state's Rainy Day Fund.
3
YES
[368-3685834_voting-drawing-right-transparent-background-fist-icon-hd]
Renews an expiring tax on the top 2% wealthiest Californians to fund public education.
4
YES
[noun_Family_711546]
The California Fair Elections Act: Elections should be won not bought.
5
YES
[368-3685834_voting-drawing-right-transparent-background-fist-icon-hd]
Election recall reform. Require a special election to fill the vacancy from a recall.
37
YES
[noun_Home_1972554]
$25 billion in bonds to second mortgage homebuyer program.
38
YES
[noun_Family_711546]
Immunology Research Bond that would fund research to cure and prevent diseases. Drugs created through research would be discounted for Californians.
39
NO
[noun_X_327680 (1)]
CA Voter Suppression Act A form of voter suppression that would make voting harder for California voters.
40
YES
[vote]
Billionaires Tax A one time emergency 5% tax on CA billionaires to keep hospitals and ERs open.
41
NO
[noun_X_327680 (1)]
Makes it harder to pass new special taxes (reducing impact of billionaires tax).
42
NO
[noun_X_327680 (1)]
Meant to stop the Billionaire Tax (Prop 40) and to make it harder to create a wealth tax in CA.
43
NO
[noun_X_327680 (1)]
Increase the threshold for special tax measures from a simple majority to a two-thirds supermajority.
44
NO
[noun_X_327680 (1)]
Clinic Funding Restrictions. Could limit translation, transportation, and outreach services.
45
NO
[noun_X_327680 (1)]
Fast Track Environmental Review. Overhaul of CEQUA: CA Environmental Quality Act.
OAKLAND MEASURES
EE
YES
[368-3685834_voting-drawing-right-transparent-background-fist-icon-hd]
Make Oakland City Hall Accountable to Oaklanders! Measure EE is a charter amendment that clarifies the Mayor and City Council's responsibilities, powers, and accountability structures.
FF
YES
[noun_Home_1972554 (1)]
Close Oakland Business Tax Loophole, Fund Affordable Housing! Measure FF closes a business tax loophole that lets big real estate companies buy large numbers of Oakland properties at once without paying their fair share in taxes.
RTM
YES
[noun_Scale_690087]
Save Bay Area Transit! Emergency 0.5% sales tax that would fund BART, Muni, Caltrain, and other Bay Area transit agencies.
WHAT IS RANKED CHOICE VOTING?
Ranked Choice Voting (RCV) gives voters the power to rank candidates. In addition to your 1st choice, you can select your 2nd and 3rd choice candidates. RCV gives voters more voice and greater choice.
You always get to vote your favorite first. This allows you to vote for your true preference based on your hopes and values, instead of the fear of “picking the most likely to win” among candidates running for the same office.
You get winners who earn a majority of the vote when matched against their top opponents. This means the winner is more broadly representative.
You don’t need to vote twice. There is no primary or runoff election, which would mean two or more separate elections. Instead, you get a winner in a single November election when the most people vote.
YOUR VOTING RIGHTS
Who is eligible to vote?
A United States citizen and a resident of California
18 years old or older on Election Day
Not currently found mentally incompetent to vote by a court (for more information, please see Voting Rights: Persons Subject to Conservatorship).
Can people with a misdemeanor or felony record vote?
YES
If you are on probation or parole, you are eligible to vote.
You cannot vote only if you are currently serving a state or federal prison term for the conviction of a felony
For more information on the rights of people who have been incarcerated, please see the Secretary of State’s Voting Rights Restored: Persons with a Prior Felony Conviction.
Register to vote online
How To Vote
There are three ways to vote.
1. Vote by Mail
Fill out your ballot.
Sign the return envelope.
Return it by mail before the recommended mailing deadline ( ), or place it in an official ballot drop box before polls close on Election Day.
2. Vote In Person
Visit any Vote Center in Alameda County during the early voting period or on Election Day.
3. Vote by Ballot Drop Box
Complete your ballot at home, sign the envelope, and return it to any official 24-hour ballot drop box.
WHERE IS MY POLLING PLACE?
FIND MY POLLING PLACE
WHO WE ARE
Oakland Rising Action is a community-led political organization focused on supporting leaders who drive a progressive agenda dedicated to racial, economic and environmental justice that puts Oakland’s working-class, immigrant and communities of color living in the flatlands of Oakland at the center of our city’s government.
Our thorough endorsement process included a written questionnaire and panel interviews with select candidates. It engages activists, organizers and leaders of Oakland’s progressive left at each stage, with the goal of endorsing candidates who most align with our values, vision, and strategy for Oakland.
Above are our endorsements for Oakland races that voters will decide on .
To ensure that we are building a thoughtful, progressive voting block that is accountable to our values, we offer some analysis as to how we landed our endorsements.
VALUES FOR OAKLAND LEADERSHIP
As we look to the political future of Oakland, a few values loom large before us. Fundamentally, we are working to shift power in Oakland to advance racial, economic and environmental justice. We believe that Oakland can and should be a city that champions equity, that puts the issues and agendas of our neighbors who have been most impacted by systemic racism, poverty, neglect, environmental hazards and incarceration at the center of our city’s agenda.
In order to make our vision come alive, we need progressive elected officials who will fight for strong protections to keep tenants, working-class homeowners, and long-time residents in their homes, and immediately shelter the homeless. We need community champions who will ensure that development happens without displacement and with benefits for long-time residents such as deeply affordable housing, high-quality jobs, and improvements to infrastructure. Public land should be used for the public good.
Oakland’s approach to community safety is a key priority for us. We believe that safety must be addressed holistically, from holding police highly accountable in cases of police violence and corruption, to deeply investing in restorative justice programs, community-based reentry programs and decriminalizing people of color and the poor. Our belief is that a safe community is one where we work together to repair injustice and inequity, and truly look out for each other – in contrast to prioritizing the protection of property and militarization of our streets. We must have a culture shift in the way policing is done, and re-invest in strong public services like libraries and recreation programs that ensure safe, positive activities for Oakland’s youth. This also goes hand in hand with supporting strong public schools and a responsible budget that prioritize the voices and needs of students, families and teachers over highly-paid administrative staff.
The current priorities of the Oakland City Council have contributed to a sharp increase in inequity in the face of booming development, notably the pushing out of our city’s Black population. We are supporting candidates who will shift those priorities to focus on ending homelessness and displacement, holding police accountable, investing in real solutions to crime prevention, and partnering with community members and progressive organizations to develop grassroots-led policy solutions to address community needs and ensure that the people of Oakland come first.
We are supporting candidates who bring strong community roots, accountability to their base and their values, and a deep understanding of systemic oppression and how to make change through addressing root causes. We also believe that Oakland should be leading the way in advancing the leadership of progressive women of color who are unapologetically standing for their values and the people with common sense solutions.