Advertisement
More elections coverage:
Voter Guide
[Outline of CA]
[Illustration of a red and a blue star.] Elections
S.F. Chronicle Endorsements for the 2026 California Election
The San Francisco Chronicle Editorial Board’s endorsements for the California and S.F. Bay Area election on .
By Chronicle Editorial Board
California’s November election is shaping up to be one of the most confusing in years for voters to navigate. There are 14 measures on the state ballot, many of them dense and extremely complicated tax policies. Unsurprisingly, polls show 80% of voters are frustrated and pessimistic about how this election will impact them. Voters in San Francisco and Oakland will also have to weigh in on hugely impactful charter reform ballot measures that could change the future of their cities.
In this kind of environment, details matter. And, yes, your vote matters.
The San Francisco Chronicle editorial board has spent months interviewing candidates, talking to experts, fact checking campaign promises and scrutinizing the issues in every statewide contest on the ballot, along with a group of consequential races in the Bay Area. These recommendations are made by Opinion writers and editors; newsroom reporters who cover the campaigns do not participate in endorsement decisions.
Below are the editorial board’s recommendations for the election. We encourage readers to click through to the full endorsements to see the board’s reasoning and understand its decisions — so that you can be fully armed to make your own informed decisions.
JUMP TO:California racesCalifornia propositionsU.S. CongressCalifornia Supreme CourtMeasures across Bay Area countiesSan FranciscoSan Francisco ballot measuresOakland ballot measures
Enter your address to see races for your district
Showing 48 of 48 available races.
Jump to a section
California racesCalifornia propositionsU.S. CongressCalifornia Supreme CourtMeasures across Bay Area countiesSan FranciscoSan Francisco ballot measuresOakland ballot measures
Print a list of our endorsements to take with you
California races
The editorial board recommends
Governor: Coming Soon
Lieutenant Governor: Fiona MaDemocrat
State treasurer/CPA
Why we're endorsing
Fiona Ma comes with significant baggage — which is why she wasn’t our first choice for the role in the June primary. But she has the competence and experience to smoothly assume the duties of the state’s No. 2 office. Given the ramblings of her opponent, we cautiously recommend Ma for lieutenant governor.
Read the full editorial
Secretary of State: Shirley WeberDemocrat
California secretary of state ▪ Incumbent
California is no ocean of calm when it comes to elections. The need for steady and trustworthy leadership from our secretary of state cannot be understated. Shirley Weber’s breadth of experience, willingness to do the right thing and fierce advocacy for voting rights make her the strongest candidate.
Controller: Malia CohenDemocrat
State controller ▪ Incumbent
The State Controller’s Office is California’s internal auditor — empowered to investigate how state agencies and local governments are spending state funds. Overall, we think Cohen has made enough progress to merit another term. But Californians should stay watchful to ensure she keeps the positive momentum going.
Treasurer: Eleni KounalakisDemocrat
Lieutenant governor
The California state treasurer is the main banker, financier and asset manager for the world’s fourth-largest economy. With her thorough grasp of the treasurer’s complex duties and the political gravitas to get things done, Eleni Kounalakis deserves your vote.
Attorney General: Rob BontaDemocrat
Attorney general ▪ Incumbent
In our endorsement interview, incumbent Rob Bonta’s calm, clear and concise grasp of the complexities and nuances of California law — honed through more than eight years in the state Assembly — surpassed that of most of the current gubernatorial candidates.
Insurance Commissioner: Ben AllenDemocrat
State senator
The insurance market has began to show signs of recovery. Insurers are finally starting to write new policies in the state. Electing a rash insurance commissioner could reverse that progress and cause the market to implode. Ben Allen has what it takes to hold insurers accountable and regulate their market conduct while also fostering the conditions necessary to keep the market stable.
Superintendent of Public Instruction: Richard Barrera
School board member
Richard Barrera is an increasingly rare California progressive who brings all parties to the table, a skill that the new state superintendent of public instruction will need as the role of the office changes.
State Board of Equalization District 1: It's complicated
The Chronicle Editorial Board writes that the Board of Equalization shouldn’t exist.
State Board of Equalization District 2: It's complicated
California propositions
Proposition 1: Yes
Befitting the broad consensus on California’s affordability crisis, Prop 1 has no formal opposition. The measure is the product of years of legislative sausage-making, and is unwieldy. But the need for more affordable housing is too desperate to wait — and Prop 1 is well-positioned to reap the benefits of the state’s new streamlining laws.
Proposition 2: Coming Soon
Proposition 3: Yes
Amid a dystopian federal climate under Trump, California can’t afford to further reduce ongoing funds for schools and healthcare programs. Voters should support Prop 3 to sustain funding levels but keep pressure on their politicians to work toward a fairer and more sustainable tax system.
Proposition 4: Coming Soon
Proposition 5: Coming Soon
Proposition 37: Yes
Prop 37 promises to make it easier for middle-class Californians to enter homeownership. Its scope is limited enough that we don’t think it will fundamentally change the state’s housing landscape. But given how dire our housing crisis is, any positive impact is better than none at all.
Proposition 38: No
Wouldn’t it feel great to vote for something everyone can agree will make a positive difference in the world? Prop 38 positions itself as such a balm. In fact, it’s one of the most noxious deposits on California’s political dung heap in years. It would give billions to an institute co-founded by billionaire Michael Milken, also known as the “junk bond king,” who was pardoned by Trump in 2020.
Proposition 39: Coming Soon
Proposition 40: Coming Soon
Proposition 41: No
Prop 41 would require new special taxes that raise money for specific purposes to adhere to state spending rules, while mandating regular audits of the programs they fund. But really it’s a cheap ruse to nullify Prop 40, the billionaire wealth tax.
Proposition 42: No
Is California coming for your retirement account? That’s what the backers of this measure would have you believe. In reality, it’s just another poison-pill measure aimed at killing Prop 40, the billionaire wealth tax. And you don’t have to support the billionaire wealth tax to realize the potential collateral damage Prop 42 could cause.
Proposition 43: Coming Soon
Proposition 44: No
On its surface, everything about Prop 44 on California’s November ballot looks appealing. But it creates a complex administrative and legal regime that will drain limited staff time and resources from these nonprofit clinics while distracting from patient care.
Proposition 45: Coming Soon
U.S. Congress
U.S. House District 11: Scott WienerDemocrat
With Scott Wiener, San Franciscans would send the state’s most relentless and effective legislator to Washington to zero in on universal healthcare, humane immigration policies, protections for the LGBTQ community and preserving democracy from President Donald Trump. Connie Chan, meanwhile, has a policy agenda and legislative track record that’s as spotty as it is sparse.
California Supreme Court
Kelli M. Evans: Coming Soon
Joshua Groban: Coming Soon
Measures across Bay Area counties
Regional Transit Measure: Yes
The Bay Area does not work without consistent, reliable, well-functioning public transit. Critics of this measure are correct that that a sales tax is regressive and that BART, in particular, needs more accountability — this measure is not a substitute for the fundamental reforms and stable state funding that transit needs over the long term. But it is a necessary investment in keeping the region’s transit system functioning while those larger challenges are addressed.
San Francisco
San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 2: Coming Soon
San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 4: Coming Soon
San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 6: Coming Soon
San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 8: Coming Soon
San Francisco Board of Supervisors, District 10: Coming Soon
San Francisco Board of Education (3 seats): Coming Soon
San Francisco Community College Board (3 seats): Coming Soon
San Francisco ballot measures
Proposition A: Yes
The San Francisco City Charter has become an accumulation of commissions, reporting requirements and procedural rules for a San Francisco that no longer exists. Prop A would clean up San Francisco’s bloated charter to better serve city residents.
Proposition B: No
Prop B would allow for the creation of a Municipal Finance Corp. — the first step toward starting a city-run public bank. The idea of a public bank designed to support social and economic justice is a noble one. But good intentions do not automatically make a good institution — and Prop B is set up to fail.
Proposition C: Yes
Prop C will not solve San Francisco’s housing crisis, but it is part of a concerted and thoughtful city-directed effort to stem the bleeding. And it is the only measure on the November ballot that will provide something the city desperately needs: a predictable source of public investment at a time when the cost of building and preserving housing keeps rising.
Proposition D: Yes
Tired of S.F.’s interminably long ballot and the bad policies it produces? Prop D contains many essential fixes that voters will need to ratify one way or another. They should get the job done now with a yes vote.
Proposition E: Yes
Political oversight over contracting and procurement has resulted in a system in which the failures are abundantly clear. San Francisco has little to lose and much to gain by professionalizing the way it does business.
Proposition F: Coming Soon
Proposition G: No
Sunset Dunes has logged more than 1.7 million visits since opening in , according to the Recreation and Parks Department, and the park is popular and benefiting nearby businesses. Meanwhile, reopening the Great Highway would come with a cost: $9.8 million in one-time expenditures and up to $1.9 million annually, according to an estimate from the San Francisco Controller’s Office. Proponents of Prop G are billing it as a “compromise,” but reopening the road would force the removal of park amenities. The editorial board endorsed a yes vote on Prop K in 2024, and we still believe that Sunset Dunes offers San Francisco the opportunity to build a transformative public space.
Proposition H: Yes
Faced with a $307 million annual budget shortfall, Muni is considering eliminating 19 bus lines, making steep cuts to street and cable car service and drastically reducing the frequency of busy bus and Metro lines. The City Controller’s Office predicts these cuts would result in a potentially disastrous scenario that could dissuade people from working in the city — adding to staffing crises for both city departments and local businesses — and result in declining property values for homeowners. Proposition H would help stem the bleeding.
Proposition I: Coming Soon
Proposition J: Coming Soon
Oakland ballot measures
Oakland Measure EE: Coming Soon
Credits
Editing by Chronicle Editorial Board. Design and development by Maren Kranking/Hearst DevHub, Vivien Ngo/Hearst DevHub, Alejandra Arevalo/Hearst DevHub and Evan Wagstaff/Hearst DevHub. Design, development and project management by Danielle Rindler/Hearst DevHub. Project management by Brittany Schell/Hearst DevHub. Illustrations by Liz Hart. Powered by Hearst Newspapers DevHub.
Read more
S.F. Chronicle 2026 Voter Guide
Submit a Letter to the Editor
CmfThirdPartyFooter - San Francisco Chronicle