Cupertino for All
Our Endorsements for 2026
Cupertino For All is proud to endorse an exceptional slate of three candidates for Cupertino City Council. JR Fruen, John Tang, and Seema Lindskog are running under the banner of Cupertino Together. What a great message for our City! They have a vision for Cupertino that is inclusive, more connected, and more equitable.
JR, Seema, and John have our votes because they are people we can trust to make decisions to serve the best interests of all residents. They have consistently demonstrated integrity by their past actions and their achievements. They are civic leaders, volunteers, and professionals who will do the work to help the City thrive now and into the future.
Finally, they are aligned with our advocacy for more housing options in Cupertino. The extremely high cost of housing in Cupertino has created a unique version of the global housing crisis here. For example
Local schools have had to close due to low enrollment because new families cannot afford to move here.
There are few starter homes for young people, including those with high tech salaries, who find it hard to buy or rent in Cupertino.
Businesses have had to close as the demographic shift to older residents has reduced their customer base.
The City will not thrive by writing policies that keep out newcomers. Newcomers will be our new neighbors, new children for our award-winning schools, and new customers for our local retail. Thoughtful housing growth will allow our City to thrive into the future.
To achieve these ambitious goals for Cupertino, it is vitally important that everyone votes for all three candidates so they can have a majority on the Council. Without a majority they cannot make the decisions that will allow the City to plan for a more vibrant, sustainable, and equitable future. Every vote counts! The last election was decided by a few dozen votes. Please help us get out the vote by volunteering to knock on doors, or answer questions at a booth. Sign up at cupertinotogether.org.
These three candidates are an exceptional team for Cupertino because they have complimentary skills and interests. Read on to learn more about each person.
JR Fruen began his campaign for a brighter future when he founded Cupertino For All in 2019. He has continued his bold advocacy throughout his four years of service on the City Council. He grew up in Cupertino and chose to return home to apply his law degree and his passion for housing policy to his hometown. We have benefited greatly from his expertise in City government.
Seema Lindskog has demonstrated admirable leadership in her role on the Cupertino Planning Commission. She has championed sustainability and endorsed an Urban Forest Master Plan for Cupertino. She is also known for her fierce advocacy for Safe Routes to School, and for shepherding the approval for the Regnart Creek Trail that so many of us now use daily.
John Tang is new to many of us but he is not unknown in Santa Clara County where he held leadership positions in water resources engineering and regulation. He will be invaluable to the City for his deep expertise in navigating complex state and municipal laws. John is also a respected educator, and local business leader having served as president of the Cupertino Chamber of Commerce.