(707) 575-3029
448 Sebastopol Ave, Santa Rosa 95401
[Sonoma County Democratic Party]
Search for:
Register to Vote
2026 General Election & Local Measure Endorsements
[Sonoma County Democratic Party]
Sonoma County Democratic Party 2026 General Election Endorsements
Federal:
U.S. Congress, District 1 – Mike McGuire
U.S. Congress, District 2 – Jared Huffman
U.S. Congress, District 4 – Mike Thompson
State:
State Senate, District 2 – Damon Connolly
State Assembly, District 2 – Chris Rogers
State Assembly, District 4 – Cecilia Aguiar-Curry
Local:
Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, District 2 – Joanna Paun
Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, District 4 – Melanie Bagby
Cloverdale City Council – Kimberly Kern
Cotati City Council – Kimberlyn Moffet
Healdsburg City Council, District 2 – Scott Pratt
Healdsburg City Council, District 4 – Chris Herrod
Petaluma Mayor, Kevin McDonnell
Petaluma City Council, District 1 – Janice Cader Thompson
Petaluma City Council, District 2 – Brent Newell
Petaluma City Council, District 3 – Eric Vazquez
Petaluma City Schools, Trustee Area 3 – Laura Holmes
Petaluma City Schools, Trustee Area 5 – Sarah Seitchik Sebastian
Waugh School District – Denise Bugbee, Christine Pieper, Dylan Lloyd
Rohnert Park City Council, District 2 – Linda Khoury Tams
Rohnert Park City Council, District 5 – Susan Hollingsworth Adams
Santa Rosa City Council, District 2 – Mark Stapp
Santa Rosa City Council, District 4 – Melanie Jones-Carter
Santa Rosa City Council, District 6 – Jeff Okrepkie
Santa Rosa City Schools, Trustee Area 2 – Shaun Du Fosee
Sonoma County Junior College District, Area 5 – Dorothy Battenfeld
Sebastopol City Council – Sandra Maurer
Sonoma City Council, District 1 – Julian Mackie
Sonoma Valley Unified School District, Area 1 – Susan McIntosh
Windsor Town Council, District 1 – Evan Kubota
Windsor Unified School District – Michael Brown and Trish Donoho
Sonoma County Democrats 2026 Local Ballot Measure Endorsements
The Sonoma County Democratic Party has reviewed local measures appearing on the General Election ballot and is proud to recommend a YES vote on the measures endorsed below.
Local ballot measures have a direct impact on the services and institutions our communities rely on every day — including public schools and higher education, emergency medical services, fire protection, parks, public safety, roads, and other essential local services.
Below are our endorsements, along with information about what each measure would do.
Unless otherwise noted, the Sonoma County Democratic Party recommends a YES vote on each measure listed below.
🚑 Emergency Medical Services
YES on Measure D — Coast Life Support District Parcel Tax
Measure D is a parcel tax measure supporting the Coast Life Support District, which provides emergency medical and ambulance services along approximately 60 miles of the Sonoma and Mendocino County coastline.
The funding helps ensure the continued availability of emergency ambulance and life-support services in a large, geographically challenging rural service area where rapid access to emergency medical care is essential.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
🎓 Schools & Education
YES on Measure E — Waugh School District Bond
Measure E is a general obligation bond for the Waugh School District.
Bond funding provides locally controlled resources for school facility needs and capital improvements. General obligation bond proceeds are dedicated to facilities and cannot be used for routine operating expenses.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
YES on Measure G — West Sonoma County Union High School District Parcel Tax
Measure G is a parcel tax benefiting the West Sonoma County Union High School District.
The measure provides locally controlled funding to support educational programs and services for students in the district.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
YES on Measure AB — Sonoma County Junior College District Bond
Measure AB would authorize up to $830 million in general obligation bonds for the Sonoma County Junior College District, which operates Santa Rosa Junior College and its educational facilities throughout the region.
The measure is designed to maintain the combined tax rate associated with the district’s previous voter-approved bonds rather than increase the current tax rate.
Funding would be used to repair and modernize aging facilities; upgrade classrooms, laboratories and technology; improve earthquake and fire safety; and expand facilities used to train students for local careers including nursing and healthcare, firefighting and emergency medical services, agriculture, auto mechanics, building trades and other high-demand occupations.
Bond proceeds must remain under local control and cannot be used for administrator salaries, pensions or routine operating expenses. The measure also includes independent financial and performance audits, public disclosure requirements and oversight by an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
YES on Measure J — Windsor Unified School District Bond
Measure J is a general obligation bond for the Windsor Unified School District.
The measure provides locally controlled funding for school facilities and capital improvements within the district.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
YES on Measure M — Harmony Union School District Parcel Tax
Measure M is a parcel tax benefiting the Harmony Union School District.
The measure provides locally controlled funding to support the district’s schools, educational programs and services for students.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
YES on Measure O — Old Adobe Union School District Bond
Measure O would authorize $48 million in general obligation bonds for the Old Adobe Union School District.
The bond would provide locally controlled funding for school facility improvements and other eligible capital projects within the district.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
🚒 Fire Protection & Emergency Services
YES on Measure N — Schell-Vista Fire Protection District Appropriations Limit Extension
Measure N would extend the Schell-Vista Fire Protection District’s appropriations limit for an additional four years.
An appropriations limit determines the amount of tax revenue a local government agency is permitted to spend. Extending the limit allows the district to continue using locally available revenues to provide fire protection, emergency response and related services.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
🌳 Parks & Open Space
YES on Measure H — Sonoma County Regional Parks
Measure H would extend the existing 1/8-cent sales tax supporting Sonoma County Regional Parks.
Originally approved by voters in 2018, the dedicated funding supports Sonoma County’s regional parks system and helps fund park maintenance, operations, improvements and protection of public lands.
Rather than creating a new tax, Measure H would continue the existing voter-approved funding source.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
🏛️ Local Community Services
YES on Measure I — Town of Windsor Transactions & Use Tax
Measure I would establish a new 1% transactions and use tax — commonly referred to as a sales tax — in the Town of Windsor.
Revenue generated by the measure would provide locally controlled funding for Town services.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
YES on Measure K — City of Rohnert Park Transactions & Use Tax
Measure K would establish a new 0.5% transactions and use tax — commonly referred to as a sales tax — in the City of Rohnert Park.
Revenue generated by the measure would remain locally controlled and be available to support City services and community needs.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
YES on Measure L — City of Santa Rosa Community Safety/Financial Stability Measure
Measure L would reauthorize Santa Rosa’s existing 0.5% Measure Q sales tax at a new 1% rate.
The measure is intended to maintain the City’s financial stability and support general City services, including 911 emergency medical and fire response, police response, street and pothole repairs, and maintenance of public places and infrastructure.
The City estimates the measure would generate approximately $46 million annually. The measure also includes independent audits and public disclosure requirements, and the revenue must remain under local control for use in Santa Rosa.
Sonoma County Democratic Party Recommendation: YES
Make a Plan to Vote
The General Election includes important federal, state and local contests in addition to these local ballot measures.
Voting by mail begins , and Election Day is .
We encourage every Sonoma County voter to learn about the issues on their ballot, make a plan to vote, and participate in the decisions that shape the future of our communities.
Official Election Information
For official ballot language, voter information, registration information, Vote Center locations and other election resources, visit the Sonoma County Registrar of Voters.
This page will be updated as additional endorsements are made or additional information about local ballot measures becomes available.
admin2026-10-02T14: -
2026 General Election & Local Measure Endorsements
Sonoma County Democratic Party 2026 General Election Endorsements Federal: U.S. Congress, District 1 - Mike McGuire U.S. Congress, District 2 - Jared Huffman U.S. Congress, District 4 - Mike Thompson State: State Senate, District 2 [...]
admin2026-08-01T10: -
2026 General Election Application for Endorsement
2026 General Election Application for Endorsement – Sonoma County Democratic Party Welcome to the Sonoma County Democratic Party’s (SCDP) guide for the endorsement application process for the 2026 General Election! Below, you’ll find all the [...]
admin2026-05-13T16: -
Local Endorsements for the June Primary
The Sonoma County Democratic Party has issued the following endorsements for local offices and ballot measures in the upcoming June Primary. These endorsements reflect the party’s review process and consideration of candidates and issues impacting [...]
admin2026-03-11T14: -
“WE HOLD THESE TRUTHS”
Creatives Contest Overview The Sonoma County Democratic Party is sponsoring a creatives contest celebrating the 250th Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. Middle Schoolers, High Schoolers, and Young Adults (post-high school, up to age 25) [...]
admin2026-02-27T23: -
North Bay Unites – Noncooperation Training
admin2026-02-10T17: -
CADEM 2026 State Convention
The California Democratic Party 2026 State Endorsing Convention will be taking place from , through at the Moscone Center in San Francisco. The focus will be on endorsements for federal and [...]
448 Sebastopol Ave Santa Rosa CA 95401 – (707) 575-3029
Paid for by the Sonoma County Democratic Party FPPC ID# 742474 (sonomademocrats.org) and not authorized by any candidate or candidate’s committee.
Page load link
Go to Top