Indivisible Sonoma County has prepared a multi-part voting guide on the Propositions
Measures, and Candidates that many voters in Sonoma County, California will consider on
.
Because California believes that citizens have a role to play in establishing policies and setting
taxes, our ballot is always full of propositions and measures. It can feel like a lot to wade
through.
a group of 11 volunteers started working on ballot recommendations. We
focused on the ballot propositions, measures, and local races, as well as a few regional or statewide races where there are two Democrats running against each other.
In the races where it’s Democrat against Republican, we agreed there was no need to make a
recommendation, other than to “vote Blue.”
Sonoma County Measure H - Sonoma County Parks Sales Tax
Recommendation: YES
Measure H extends Measure M, approved by Sonoma County voters in 2018, a ⅛ cent
local sales tax, which funds our regional and city parks.
This tax pays for Park maintenance, trail upkeep, restroom cleaning, accessibility
improvements, and wildfire risk reduction like brush thinning and grazing. It is due to
expire in 2029.
Measure H also removes the sunset clause, so Park maintenance will continue to be
funded without future risk.
https://parks.sonomacounty.ca.gov/
Local Measure D: Coast Life Support District Parcel Tax
Recommendation: YES
Funding for Measure D will help ensure the continued availability of emergency ambulance and
life support services in a large, geographically-challenging rural service area where rapid access
to emergency medical care is essential.
Measure D is a parcel tax supporting the Coast Life Support District. The District comprises
approximately 60 miles of rugged Sonoma and Mendocino counties coastline.
Endorsements: Supported by the Sonoma County Democratic Party
Sonoma County Measure AB: Sonoma County Junior College
District Improvement bond
Recommendation: YES
The quality of educational facilities and equipment is a big determiner of the quality of
education. This is a measure to issue $830,000,000 in bonds to improve facilities that will
provide training to students for careers in practical job-related fields. Measure AB will cover all
five SRJC campuses; it will be on the Sonoma, Marin, and Mendocino County ballots. Passage
requires 55% voter approval.
Measure AB takes a significant step toward improving infrastructure and making sure students
at SRJC have the best chance to stay prepared for changes in the job market. There will be
oversight by the Board of Trustees on how the money is spent and what projects (approved by
the voters) are undertaken. The measure also requires a Citizens Oversight Committee, and
annual financial and performance audits.
Measure AB is endorsed by the Santa Rosa Junior College Board of Trustees, Friends of Santa
Rosa Junior College Foundation, Sonoma County Democratic Party, Sonoma County Asian
Pacific Islander Democratic Club, Sonoma Valley Democratic Club, IBEW Local 551.
McGUIRE AND THOMPSON ENDORSEMENTS
Indivisible Sonoma County has endorsed State Senator Mike McGuire in his race in
California’s first congressional district.
McGuire, a Sonoma County native, is well-known here, although the new CA-01 district will
extend far beyond the county, both north and east. He has extensive experience in the state
legislature, where he has termed out, and presents himself as a progressive fighter. We believe
he will be an energetic opponent to the fascist caucus across the aisle and reform-minded on
many of the key changes we need to see to our political system, such as expanding the
Supreme Court.
Indivisible Sonoma County has endorsed Congressman Mike Thompson in his race in
California’s fourth congressional district.
Thompson is well-known in the county and Indivisible Sonoma County has met with him and his
staff since our inception. He is an able legislator and a senior member of the critical Committee
on Ways and Means. We’re pleased to see him promising to pass single payer healthcare, if
given the majority.
In these challenging times; we’re also pleased to see him with a sharpened fighting spirit and
more willing than he has been in the past to press the attack on Republicans. We hope that he
will bring that same energy to pushing the House leadership to do better.
Thompson’s challenger didn’t impress us as being ready for the job.
We’re hoping to help give Thompson a majority and expect him to bring the same vigor that he
has shown in this campaign to this upcoming term in Congress.
Insurance Commissioner
Jane Kim
California’s insurance commissioner leads the California Department of Insurance to regulate
the state's massive insurance industry and protect consumers. Affordability and availability of
homeowner’s insurance are the biggest concerns, as many insurance companies have either
backed out of the state completely, or made it much more difficult for homeowners to qualify for
or afford insurance if they are in a wildfire or flood zone.
Kim got the most votes of any candidate in the primary (27%). She is a progressive candidate
who puts workers and their families first, and believes that wealthy individuals and corporations
should pay more in both taxes as well as premiums. She has put forth a proposal to create a
state-run natural disaster fund to be paid for jointly by homeowners and insurance companies.
A former San Francisco Supervisor, she is backed by Sen. Bernie Sanders, the Working
Families Party, the CA Labor Federation and the CA Teachers’ Association. Other key
endorsements include Lt Gov Eleni Kounalakis, Controller Malia Cohen, David Huerta, SEIU-CA
President, Barbara Lee, Mayor of Oakland, and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.
Superintendent of Public Instruction
Richard Barrera
As a school board member since 2008 serving the San Diego Unified school district, Barrera
drew on his experience as a community organizer to transform a district in crisis into one of the
highest performing school districts in the country. Under his leadership as board president, San
Diego Unified has become a national model for student success. He will bring a fresh
perspective to the job, focusing on boosting school funding, early childhood education and
easing the path to becoming a teacher.
References and Endorsements: California Teachers Association, United Domestic Workers
California Charter School Advocates
State Assembly District 12
Jackie Elward
Jackie Elward is the best choice to represent the interests of Sonoma County
progressives, and she deserves our vote. Elward has served on the Rohnert Park City
Council since 2020, including a term as Mayor, and is on the Board of Directors for Sonoma
Clean Power and Sonoma County Continuum of Care.
Born and raised in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, she is a lifelong educator who speaks
six languages. She moved to California over and became a citizen in 2013. She
lives with her husband and children in Sonoma County. Her priorities include affordability
wildfire prevention, fighting back against the Trump administration, education, housing, reducing
homelessness, protecting healthcare and reproductive rights, and keeping our communities
safe.
Elward has been endorsed by Damon Connolly, who currently holds this office, as well as
Congressman Mike Thompson, AG Rob Bonta, State Treasurer Fiona Ma, and former State
Controller Betty Yee. Union support includes CA Nurses Association, CA Teachers Association
and North Bay Labor Council; other key endorsements are the Sierra Club, local chapters of the
Young Democrats, the Working Families Party; and the CA Legislative Black Caucus
Progressive Caucus and Women’s Caucus.
Board of Supervisors (Districts 2 and 4)
Joanna Paun and Melanie Bagby
The races for Sonoma County Supervisor in Districts 2 and 4 are officially nonpartisan.
But the choices are political—and consequential.
We recommend Joanna Paun in District 2 and Melanie Bagby in District 4. Electing both would
change the balance on the Board of Supervisors. Along with Chris Coursey, they would provide
a three-member majority that is generally aligned on issues important to us: stronger civilian
oversight of the Sheriff’s Office, reducing the county’s involvement with ICE, supporting
immigrant residents facing federal enforcement, expanding affordable housing, and protecting
the environment.
Paun and Bagby have support from a broad range of local organizations, including labor
environmental and Democratic groups. Both also bring substantial local government experience.
Paun has served on school boards, including as board president. Bagby served on the
Cloverdale City Council and as mayor, and has also been involved in regional work on
transportation, clean energy and other countywide issues.
Endorsements: https://www.electjoannapaun.com/endorsements
https://www.melaniebagby.com/endorsements
SANTA ROSA CITY COUNCIL, District 4
MELANIE JONES-CARTER
Melanie Jones-Carter, a candidate for Santa Rosa City Council, District 4, comes highly
recommended by County Supervisor Chris Coursey. She has spent decades serving this
community — as Chair of the Design Review Board, Vice Chair of the Art in Public Places
Committee, Vice Chair of the Museum of Sonoma County, and Vice Chair of the Sonoma
County Commission on the status of Women. Jones-Carter is also one of the four founders of
the Benton Street Improvement Association, bringing signs of hope to our county and beyond
since 2017. She has more than 30 years of professional experience in operations and nonprofit
management, and she knows how to get things done.
Her priorities are straightforward: housing that people can actually afford, a downtown worth
visiting, and real solutions to homelessness. Outgoing District 4 Council Member Victoria
Fleming is enthusiastically supporting Jones-Carter as her successor.
Voters in Santa Rosa’s District 4 would do well to have Melanie Jones-Carter represent them.
Resources:
CalMatters
League of Women Voters of California
California Legislature's Non-Partisan Fiscal and Policy Advisor
Indivisible California: State Strong
Blue Voter Guide