Indivisible Sonoma County Recommends
All about the Propositions - November Ballot, 2026
Indivisible Sonoma County
10
1
1
Share
What? Indivisible Sonoma County has recommended votes?
Indeed we do. This is a first for us, as Indivisible becomes more engaged in changing our nation, vote by vote.
Indivisible Sonoma County has prepared a multi-part voting guide on the Propositions, Measures, and Candidates that many voters in Sonoma County, California will consider on .
Because California believes that citizens have a role to play in establishing policies and setting taxes, our ballot is always full of propositions and measures. It can feel like a lot to wade through.
a group of 11 volunteers started working on ballot recommendations. We focused on the ballot propositions, measures, and local races, as well as a few regional or state-wide races where there are two Democrats running against each other.
In the races where it’s Democrat against Republican, we agreed there was no need to make a recommendation, other than to “vote Blue.”
QUICK VOTING GUIDE
(Click here for a printable copy)
(Click here for a more detailed review)
Recommendations for Local Measures and for State-wide and Local Candidates - coming tomorrow!
Prepositions and Recommended Vote
California Proposition 1: Affordable and Veteran’s Housing Bond
YES
$11.25 billion bond measure to provide funding for affordable housing.
California Proposition 2: Budget Stabilization Account Cap Increase and Gann Limit Changes Amendment (2026)
YES
Allows state policymakers to save more in strong revenue years to better protect vital public services during economic downturns, since deposits in the key reserves would no longer count as spending for the Gann Limit calculations.
California Proposition 3: Makes permanent existing taxes on high earners for education and healthcare
YES
Makes permanent two previously approved income tax measures on the highest income earners in the state.
California Proposition 4: The California Fair Elections Act
YES
This measure, if passed, would repeal the current ban on public campaign financing – allowing any city or county, or the state, to implement one of a list of public financing systems for candidates who opt in to not take large contributions from anyone.
California Proposition 5: Changes Recall Election Process for 5 Statewide Officers.
YES
Makes one basic change to the recall process: voters would decide whether to remove an elected official separately from deciding who replaces them.
California Proposition 37: Creates Loan Program for Middle-Income Buyers of Qualified New Homes
YES
Creates affordable homeownership opportunities for working and middle-class Californians and encourages new home construction—with ZERO COST TO TAXPAYERS.
California Proposition 38: Authorizes Bonds for Immunology Medical Research.
NO
Authorizes $8.4 billion in general obligation bonds for immunology and immunotherapy research, half to a single University of California-affiliated nonprofit medical research institute, half to research grants. The billionaire founders of that non-profit are co-sponsors of Prop 38 and have written the proposition to so narrowly define the criteria for the $4B that only their non-profit is eligible.
Proposition 39: Prohibits Citizens From Voting Unless They Present Government-Issued Identification.
NO
This initiative, if passed, would intentionally create hurdles for all voters, increase confusion, and depress the vote. Prop 39 is a proposed Constitutional Amendment, placed on the California ballot by MAGA Republicans and billionaires. Make no mistake: Prop 39 will make voting harder, riskier, and more expensive for Californians because that’s what it was designed to do.
California Proposition 40: One-Time Wealth Tax for State-Funded Health Care Programs Initiative
YES
Right now, families across California are one hospital closure away from losing the care they depend on. Federal healthcare cuts have blown a $30 billion hole in Medi-Cal funding, and Prop 40 is our chance to fix it directly: a one-time 5% tax on the roughly 200 Californians worth over $1 billion. It’s projected to raise nearly $100 billion over five years, 90% for healthcare, the rest for food assistance and education.
California Proposition 41: Prohibit Excluding New State Taxes from Spending Limit and Require Special Tax Audits Initiative (2026)
California Proposition 42: Prohibit New Taxes on Retirement Holdings, Personal Assets, and Savings and Limit Retroactive Taxes Initiative
NO ON 41 & 42
Propositions 41 and 42 aren’t independent policy proposals; they exist to cancel out Proposition 40. Under California’s rules, if either measure gets more “yes” votes than Prop 40, the billionaire tax could be nullified even if it also passes. That’s the entire point: they were placed on the ballot by Building a Better California, an organization co-founded by Sergey Brin and Eric Schmidt, which has raised over $118 million specifically to defeat the wealth tax.
California Proposition 43: Limits Voters Ability to Raise Revenues for Local Government Services
NO
Starting , the California Constitution would be amended to require a ⅔ vote to pass citizen-initiated local special taxes. This would replace the current system that allows citizen-initiated local special taxes, such as for schools, roads, public safety healthcare, and community services, to pass with a simple majority vote.
California Proposition 44: 90% Healthcare Spending for Non-Profit Safety-Net Clinics
NO
Prop 44 could worsen health disparities rather than reduce them, and would potentially put safety-net clinics, which serve low-income and uninsured patients, out of business, because it requires affected clinics to pay a penalty to the state if they fall short of the new health care spending minimum.
California Proposition 45: Changes to Environmental Review Process for Certain Projects
NO
Prop 45 shifts power from public agencies to developers and nearly eliminates the courts’ ability to prevent toxic contamination of air and water.
Resources:
CalMatters
League of Women Voters of California
California Legislature’s Non-Partisan Fiscal and Policy Advisor
Indivisible California: State Strong
Blue Voter Guide
10
1
1
Share
PreviousNext
Discussion about this post
CommentsRestacks
[User's avatar]
[Eddie Graham's avatar]
Eddie Graham
Liked by Indivisible Sonoma County
Helpful. Thank you. I especially appreciated learning more about Prop 38, for which I was going to vote until I found out more about it.
Reply
Share
TopLatestDiscussions
No posts
Ready for more?
Start your SubstackGet the app
Substack is the home for great culture