[Indivisible Sonoma County Logo] [Indivisible Sonoma County Logo]
Indivisible Sonoma County 2026 Midterm Voting Guidejanet@zagdesign.com2026-10-09T02: +
Indivisible Sonoma County’s 2026 Midterm Voting Guide
Candidates and Recommended Vote
Prior to the June primary, Indivisible Sonoma County members supported the following endorsements:
McGUIRE AND THOMPSON ENDORSED
Indivisible Sonoma County has endorsed State Senator Mike McGuire in his race in California’s first congressional district.
McGuire, a Sonoma County native, is well-known here, although the new CA-01 district will extend far beyond the county, both north and east. He has extensive experience in the state legislature, where he has termed out, and presents himself as a progressive fighter. We believe he will be an energetic opponent to the fascist caucus across the aisle and reform-minded on many of the key changes we need to see to our political system, such as expanding the Supreme Court.
Indivisible Sonoma County has endorsed Congressman Mike Thompson in his race in California’s fourth congressional district.
Thompson is well-known in the county and Indivisible Sonoma County has met with him and his staff since our inception. He is an able legislator and a senior member of the critical Committee on Ways and Means. We’re pleased to see him promising to pass single payer healthcare, if given the majority.
In these challenging times, we’re also pleased to see him with a sharpened fighting spirit and more willing than he has been in the past to press the attack on Republicans. We hope that he will bring that same energy to pushing the House leadership to do better.
Thompson’s challenger didn’t impress us as being ready for the job.
We’re hoping to help give Thompson a majority and expect him to bring the same vigor that he has shown in this campaign to this upcoming term in Congress.
Additionally, although the membership did not consider an endorsement, Indivisible Sonoma County encourages a vote for Jared Huffman in the California 2nd Congressional District.
QUICK VOTING GUIDE
(Click here for a printable copy)
(Click here for a more detailed review)
(Click here for the Proposition Recommendations)
Measures and Recommended Vote
Sonoma County Measure H: Sonoma County Parks Sales Tax
YES
Measure H extends Measure M, approved by Sonoma County voters in 2018, a ⅛ cent local sales tax, which funds our regional and city parks.
Local Measure D: Coast Life Support District Parcel Tax
YES
Funding for Measure D will help ensure the continued availability of emergency ambulance and life support services in a large, geographically-challenging rural service area where rapid access to emergency medical care is essential.
Sonoma County Measure AB: Sonoma County Junior College District Improvement bond
YES
The quality of educational facilities and equipment is a big determiner of the quality of education. This is a measure to issue $830,000,000 in bonds to improve facilities that will provide training to students for careers in practical job-related fields. Measure AB will cover all five SRJC campuses; it will be on the Sonoma, Marin, and Mendocino County ballots. Passage requires 55% voter approval.
Early Vote Now!
Insurance Commissioner
Jane Kim
Superintendent of Public Instruction
Richard Barrera
State Assembly District 12
Jackie Elward
Board of Supervisors (District 2)
Joanna Paun
Board of Supervisors (District 4)
Melanie Bagby
SANTA ROSA CITY COUNCIL, District 4
Melanie Jones-Carter
Resources:
CalMatters
League of Women Voters of California
California Legislature’s Non-Partisan Fiscal and Policy Advisor
Indivisible California: State Strong
Blue Voter Guide
Page load link
Error: Contact form not found.
Go to Top