Search this site
Embedded Files
Skip to navigation
LWV North & Central San Mateo County
Advocacy
The League of Women Voters is nonpartisan—we do not support or oppose candidates or parties—but we do advocate on issues that affect voters and our communities. This page highlights the key issues we are currently working on.
Vote with the League!
All recommendations are based on careful analysis of the measure and our National, State, Bay Area, and Local positions on issues. You can review our non-partisan policy here.
LWV Recommendations on California and Bay Area Propostions
California Ballot recommendations from the LWV of California
Regional Transit Mesure Recommendation from the LWV of the Bay Area
LWVNCSMC Recomendations for County and Local Measures
Measure U: Independent Redistricting for San Mateo County
LWV Recommendation: Vote yes on Measure U
Every 10 years, San Mateo County must redraw the boundaries of its five supervisorial districts. Those lines determine which communities vote together and who represents them in county government for the next decade.
Currently, the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors has final authority over district boundaries. But this is a sell-interested group that has, most recently, overridden the recommendations of citizen members of a redistricting commission. What's the point of an independent commission if it isn't independent? Allowing elected officials to make final decisions creates an inherent conflict of interest.
A truly independent redistricting commission:
Reduces conflicts of interest by removing direct control from elected officials
Increases transparency and public trust
Creates broader and more inclusive community participation.
Measure U would change who has the final authority to draw those lines. If approved, measure U would ammend the County Charter to require an Independent Redistricting Commission—not the Board of Supervisors—to reapportion supervisorial districts after each federal census, following applicable California law.
LWV Position on Redistricting
Position in Brief: The League of Women Voters believes responsibility for redistricting preferably should be vested in an independent special commission, with a membership that reflects the diversity of the unit of government, including citizens at large, representatives of public interest groups, and members of minority groups.
LWV of California Position on Redistricting
LWV of the US Position on Redistricting
Measure J: Extend the Period to Replace a Vacancy in County Elected Office
LWV Recommendation: Vote yes on Measure J
Measure J would amend the county charter to extend the period for the Board of Supervisors to either call a special election or make an appointment in the event of a vacancy in an elected office other than the Board of Supervisors from 30 days to 60 days. Measure J also requires the Board to conduct at least one public meeting with adequate notice and to receive public comment prior to any appointment. This change allows for more active citizen participation and a more transparent and inclusive selection process.
LWV Position on Government Transparency
The League of Women Voters believes that democratic government depends upon informed and active participation in government and requires that governmental bodies protect the citizen’s right to know by giving adequate notice of proposed actions, holding open meetings and making public records accessible.
LWV Principals
Additional Resources for County Measures
Look up your current county district and see who your supervisor is with the San Mateo County District Lookup Tool.
San Mateo County Elections — election materials
LWV San Mateo County Measures Pros & Cons
Report abuse
Page details
Page updated
Report abuse