[WELLSTONE Democratic Renewal Club]
Home
Events
Join Or Renew
Endorsements
Committees
Education
Peace
National Politics
Racial, Criminal & Immigrant Justice
BBBON
EBCFA
Leadership
Resources
Contact
About
Home
Events
Join Or Renew
Endorsements
Committees
Education
Peace
National Politics
Racial, Criminal & Immigrant Justice
BBBON
EBCFA
Leadership
Resources
Contact
About
ENDORSEMENTS
Support the Wellstone Club's endorsements:
Donate to the Wellstone Democratic Renewal Club PAC
Wellstone Club Endorsements for
Federal
US Representative CD 12: Lateefah Simon
US Representative CD 14: Aisha Wahab
US Representative CD 22: Randy Villegas
California
Governor: Xavier Becerra
Lt Governor: Fiona Ma
Secretary of State: Shirley Weber
Attorney General: Rob Bonta
Treasurer: Eleni Kounalakis
Controller: Malia Cohen
Insurance Commissioner: Jane Kim
Supt. of Public Instruction: Richard Barrera
Board of Equalization Member District 2: Sally Lieber
State Assembly District 14: No Endorsement
State Assembly District 18: Mia Bonta
Berkeley
Auditor: Jenny Wong
City Council D-1: Daria Wrubel; (2nd-place endorsement-Moni Gangopadhyay)
City Council D-4: No Endorsement
City Council D-7: Syrak Micael
City Council D-8: Michael Wallman
School Board: Ka'Dijah Brown
School Board: Sandy Park
School Board: Jennifer Shanoski
Berkeley Rent Board: Berkeley Tenants Convention slate (Avery Arbaugh, Ida Martinac, Nathan Mizell, Vylma Ortiz, and Derek Rodriguez)
Oakland
Mayor: Barbara Lee
Auditor: Michael Houston
City Council D-2: No Endorsement
City Council D-4: No Endorsement
City Council D-6: No Endorsement
School Board D-2: Jennifer Brouhard
School Board D-4: Sylvia Pfeiffer Williams (2nd place endorsement-Kathryn Camp)
School Board D-6: Valarie Bachelor
Other Jurisdictions
AC Transit Board, Ward 3: Adriana Valencia
AC Transit Board, Ward 4: Sarah Syed
EBMUD Board, Ward 3: Marguerite Young
EBMUD Board, Ward 4: Andy Katz
Peralta Community College District Trustee, Area 3: Louis Quindlen
Peralta Community College District Trustee, Area 5: Sandra Weese
California Propositions
Prop 1. $11.25 Million Affordable and Veteran Housing Bond: Support
Prop 2. Budget Stabilization Account Cap Increase and Gann Limit Changes Amendment: Support
Prop 3. Extend Millionaire Tax to Fund Education: Support
Prop 4. Allow Public Financing of Election Campaigns: Support
Prop 5. Eliminate Successor Election at a State Officer Recall Election: Support
Prop 37. Second Mortgage Homebuyer Program and Revenue Bond Initiative: No recommendation
Prop 38. Immunology and Immunotherapy Research Funding Initiative: Oppose
Prop 39. Require Voter ID: Oppose
Prop 40. Billionaire Tax: Support
Prop 41. Prohibit Excluding New State Taxes from Spending Limit and Require Special Tax Audits Initiative (Invalidates Billionaire Tax): Oppose
Prop 42. Prohibit New Taxes on Retirement Holdings, Personal Assets, and Savings and Limit Retroactive Taxes (Invalidates Billionaire Tax): Oppose
Prop 43. Require Two-Thirds Vote for Voter Initiated Local Special Taxes: Oppose
Prop 44. Spending Requirements for Federally Qualified Health Centers Initiative: Oppose
Prop 45. Expedited Environmental Review Process for Certain Projects Initiative: Oppose
Regional Ballot Measure
Prop RTM. Sales Tax to Fund Bay Area Public Transit: Support
Berkeley Ballot Measures
Measure U. General Obligation Bond Measure for Public Infrastructure and Facilities: Support
Measure V. Sales Tax increase: No recommendation
Measure W. Various Minor Amendments to the City Charter: Support
Measure X. Various Minor Amendments to the Rent Stabilization Ordinance: Support
Measure Y. Parcel Tax to Fund Arts Institutions and Programs: Support
Measure Z. Parcel Tax to Finance Creation of an East Bay Public Bank: Support
Measure AA. Soda Tax increase: Support
Oakland Ballot Measures
Measure EE. Strong Mayor Charter Reform: No recommendation
Measure FF. Real Property Tax Measure-removes foreclosure exemption: Support
Endorsement Interviews - Recordings
#1 Consent; Berkeley CC Districts 8,4,7; Berkeley Rent Board
2 Oakland School Board: Candidates Dist 2,4,6 followed by WDRC Ed Committee Report
​#3 AC Transit Board Ward 6; Oakland CC D 2, 6; Oakland FF: Oakland Mayor Lee; Berkeley CC Dist 1
​#4 Oakland EE; Berkeley Y, V, U; Peralta Comm College Board Area 5
Link to the Wellstone Club Education Committee's Recommendations
Despite Trump's Errors and Unpopularity, We're STILL in the Fight of Our Lives!
What YOU Can Do to FLIP Congress BLUE in 2026:
Campaign for Randy Villegas in CA CD-22
Canvass in Other States (Seed the Vote)
Raise Funds for the Carolina Federation - North Carolina
​Donate to the Carolina Federation
Raise Funds for Grassroots Organizers in Swing States & Districts (Movement Voter Project)
Donate to the Movement Voter Project
Movement Voter Project - Bay Area Events
Contact the Wellstone Club to Add Your Favorite anti-MAGA activity here!
Primary Endorsements
Results of June Primary Endorsement Ballot
Governor - Tom Steyer
Lt. Governor - No Endorsement
Secretary of State - Shirley Weber
Controller - Malia Cohen
Treasurer - No Endorsement
Attorney General - Rob Bonta
Insurance Commissioner - Jane Kim
Board of Equalization, D2 - Sally Lieber
US Representative, 12th - Lateefah Simon
Assembly, 14th - No Endorsement
Assembly, 18th - Mia Bonta
State Superintendent - Nichelle Henderson
Superior Court Judge, Office 13 - Cabral Bonner
Superior Court Judge, District 19 - Selia Warren
Alameda County Superintendent - Alysse Castro
Alameda County District Attorney - Pamela Price
Alameda County Board of Supervisors, District 2 - Elisa Marquez
Alameda County Board of Supervisors, District 3 - No Endorsement
Alameda County Board of Education, 1st Trustee Area - Ana Vasudeo
Measure A. Peralta Colleges Affordable Education Reauthorization - Support
Oakland Measure C. One-Year Business Tax Exemption for New or Small Business - Support
Oakland Measure D. Amend City Charter. Board of the Police & Fire Retirement System - Support
Oakland Measure E. Parcel Tax - Support​
Wellstone Votes to Endorse 2026 Billionaires Tax Act
There were 103 valid votes and 0 empty votes.
Counting votes using Plurality/FPTP/SNTV.
Candidate | Count
=============================================
Support the 2026 Billionaires Tax Act | 90
Oppose the 2026 Billionaires Tax Act | 9
No Recommendation | 4
Exhausted | 0
Winner is Support the 2026 Billionaires Tax Act.
Early endorsement for Randy Villegas in CA CD-22
The Wellstone Democratic Renewal Club has voted an early endorsement of Randy Villegas for the House seat in CD 22. CD 22 is a district in the Central Valley that includes Kings County and parts of Kern and Tulare Counties. Over two-thirds of the residents rely on Medicaid, the highest rate in the country.
This is why the NPC is supporting Randy now, rather than waiting until after the June primary, even though there will be other Democrats running in the primary:
Villegas is clearly the progressive candidate in this race: “I’m running on an economic populist message.”
In the last election, the Democrats ran a centrist candidate, Rudy Salas, who lost to Republican Valadao, the current Representative for CD 22. Running another centrist Democrat in 2026 is a recipe for failure. We need a Democrat with a progressive message for voters.
Villegas has been endorsed by the Working Families Party as well as all three Democratic county chairs in the district, former Congressman Tony Cardenas, and Rep Ro Khanna.
Four Democrats have declared their intention to run for this seat, against the Republican incumbent David Valadao. Two are serious contenders, Randy Villegas and Jasmeet Bains.
Randy Villegas is the son of farm workers from Mexico who got a PhD, is teaching at a community college, and understands the level of work it will take to beat the incumbent, so he’s doing it! He has 300-400 volunteers working for him, takes tough stands and is able to communicate well with his constituents.
Jasmeet Bains currently represents District 35 in the California State Assembly. She is a centrist Democrat who has received money in the past from oil companies and gave money to a Republican running for office in 2020.
Rudy Salas lost to Valadao in 2024. Although he has declared, he does not appearing to be running a serious campaign.
Eric Garcia has also declared but has not raised any funds to date.
The NPC invites you to join us at a fundraiser/party for Randy at Holly Scheider’s in Berkeley on , 3-
The Wellstone Democratic Renewal Club has endorsed CA Prop 50 - the Election Rigging Response Act.
To help spread the word about this important campaign, the Wellstone Club is following CADem's lead, using their literature, PDI, voter targeting, and turf cutting. We are also working with the Bay Area Coalition (BAC), which has volunteers who send follow-up emails and texts to the people who sign up to canvass. Volunteers sign up through Mobilize (https://www.mobilize.us/swingleft/event/833199/, and multiple organizations are promoting the canvasses to their networks.
Wellstone Club endorsements for the California elections will take place in . Members in good standing as of will be eligible to vote on endorsements at the endorsement meeting. Become a Wellstone member today, or inquire as to your current membership status and renewal date.
Previous Endorsements
Berkeley
Oakland
Wellstone Democratic Renewal Club - POB 9572 - Berkeley CA 94709-0572 - Join Today!
Wellstone Democratic Renewal Club PAC 2024 - POB 3496 - Oakland CA 94609 - FPPC #1462327​