Twitter
Email
Facebook
[East Bay for Everyone]
Select Page
Vote No on Prop 45: Streamlining Sprawl/Freeways is NOT Pro-Housing
by Chance Boreczky| Uncategorized
If you ask a lineup of housing advocates whether they support streamlining new housing, the answer is “of course.” That’s the energy the California Chamber of Commerce (CalChamber) is hoping to harness with the Proposition 45 measure they’ve put on the 2026 ballot – the “Building an Affordable California Act” (BACA). But Prop 45 aka BACA is about streamlining destructive sprawl—not infill housing. East Bay for Everyone opposes BACA and urges other housing advocates and stakeholders to join us.
Prop. 45 is all the more insidious because it masquerades as a solution to a real and complex problem. Housing advocates have been pushing for reforms to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for years. CEQA is a law that was passed in the 1970s when California did not have adequate environmental protections. But it goes much further, essentially requiring studies for anything that has an impact on the built environment.
CEQA reform has long been needed to streamline expanding public transportation, infill housing (or housing in an already-developed area), and renewable energy generation and transmission projects. Recognizing this, the legislature passed two historic CEQA streamlining bills in 2025: SB 607 and AB 130. This legislative package exempted infill housing from CEQA, which was a monumental win for housing advocates. Prior bills since 2020 have provided targeted CEQA streamlining for electric rail, light rail, bus rapid transit, bike lanes, pedestrian infrastructure and other clean transportation investment.
Enter Prop. 45, a new proposal on the block to further streamline CEQA. BACA provides significant streamlining to a very broad array of what it calls “essential projects.” The measure defines “essential project” to include almost all housing, water, transportation, clean energy, transmission, wildfire-risk mitigation, broadband, healthcare, education, and first-responder projects.
So if we’ve already streamlined infill housing under CEQA, what does Prop. 45 do for infill housing? Nothing.
Instead, Prop. 45 streamlines destructive single-family sprawl developments and their infrastructure. The number of single-family developments we are building in California’s hinterlands should be shrinking, not rising. Sprawl forces people into soul-sucking supercommutes away from jobs and other destinations, driving up vehicle miles travelled while destroying essential habitat.
In addition to streamlining sprawl housing, Prop. 45 streamlines new freeways, data centers, and enormous projects like dams that have significant environmental risk and impact on local communities. Prop. 45 additionally streamlines all “related and ancillary infrastructure,” a very broad term that could mean anything from transmission lines through protected habitat to a freeway interchange that requires demolishing a low-income neighborhood. Prop. 45 does not distinguish between projects of different sizes, so a new highway is evaluated under the same rules as a 5-unit residential development.
Moreover, Prop. 45 does not provide any specific relief to public transit, intercity rail, cycling, walking or other clean, low carbon infrastructure. It treats a bus rapid transit project that reduces greenhouse gases, congestion and particulate emissions the same as a massive freeway widening project. Finally, despite California High-Speed Rail being the poster child for CEQA-inflicted delay and cost increases, Prop. 45 explicitly excludes high-speed rail from CEQA streamlining!
Prop. 45 functions both by setting strict timelines on local agencies and freezing environmental review to existing standards. Both of these sound good on face value, but because they apply to such a vast array of projects—including bad projects—it gets dicey.
By requiring any agency that is not the lead agency to issue final approvals within 90 days of an application being completed, Prop. 45 overwhelmingly benefits sprawl. Greenfield projects often require approvals from many different agencies—especially for annexations, which currently involve substantial review and fiscal analysis. Sprawl would benefit massively from this provision.
And by freezing review to existing written standards, Prop. 45 lowers the bar most in places with the weakest environmental frameworks—predominantly more rural areas without robust municipal regulations. That disproportionately benefits sprawl development. Projects like Mowery Village on Newark’s wetlands would have a clearer path forward, while infill—which is already streamlined and governed by stronger standards—gains little.
Over and over again, Prop. 45 sounds good—until you recognize that it is focused on streamlining all the wrong things. A perusal of the donors to Prop. 45’s PACs confirms this: sprawl home builders, trade groups, asphalt suppliers, freeway builders, car-oriented businesses, and rural landowners. Not a single membership based YIMBY group is supporting the measure.
Rubber stamping sprawl is not in alignment with East Bay for Everyone’s values and goals as an organization. CEQA remains deeply flawed, but Prop. 45 is not the way to solve it. We are not the only ones – other housing and urbanist organizations like Housing Now!, Streets for All, Transbay Coalition, Transform and Climate Plan agree. California YIMBY – the premier statewide YIMBY organization has taken no position on Prop. 45.
If you want to learn more about Prop. 45 and BACA, Greenbelt Alliance has a blog post that goes into depth on the flaws we mentioned above. Or check out the No on 45 Coalition.
Submit a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Search
Search
Recent Posts
EB4E 2026 General Election Endorsements
Vote No on Prop 45: Streamlining Sprawl/Freeways is NOT Pro-Housing
Oakland General Plan: Good, Bad and Ugly
Under One Roof: EB4E Gala 11/15 at New Parkway
EB4E Fall 2024 Endorsements
Recent Comments