Published using Google Docs
Report abuseLearn more
2026 November Voter Guide
Updated automatically every 5 minutes
2026 General Election Voter Guide
Foreword
Hello and thank you for taking the time to read this! We are the Silicon Valley chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America. We promote democracy in not just our political system, but also within our economic system. We ultimately wish to see the dispersal of the hierarchical capitalist system we currently inhabit and to institute a more democratic, more co-operative, and less exploitative economic and political society. We are working on various projects centered around international solidarity, criminal justice reform, universal public transit, tenant and labor union organizing, and electoral reform and advocacy. If you wish to learn more about us, check out our website at siliconvalleydsa.org.
This document is our voter guide for the 2026 general election.
This voter guide has been vetted and written by the Electoral Working Group, the chapter’s team of election watchers. We make our decisions and recommendations through the lens of our ideology, and thus choose the more progressive and/or socialist-leaning candidates and positions. That does mean we will not recommend any Republican or Libertarian candidates, as they are wholly unaligned with our ideology.
Please note that even though we will recommend a number of Democrats, we are not part of the Democratic Party nor an affiliate of the party.
Also, please note that recommendations are not endorsements; endorsements are approved by a 75% vote by the Chapter and entail a significant commitment of Chapter resources, time, and energy. Recommendations are approved by a majority of the Chapter only, and do not allow for any resources to be committed by SV DSA other than this voter guide. We have specified whom we have endorsed in the guide.
If you have not registered to vote or wish to change your registration status, you have through to do so. To register, please visit the CA Secretary of State website at registertovote.ca.gov.
Thank you again for your time! Hopefully this guide will be a help to you. Remember to vote!
Table of Contents
Statewide Races 6
Governor 6
Lieutenant Governor 6
Secretary of State 6
Controller 6
Treasurer 6
Attorney General 7
Insurance Commissioner 7
State Board of Equalization, District 2 7
Superintendent of Public Instruction 7
Congressional Races 8
District 14 8
District 15 8
District 16 8
District 17 8
District 18 8
District 19 8
State Assembly Races 9
District 21 9
District 23 9
District 24 9
District 25 9
District 26 9
District 28 9
State Senate Race 10
District 10 10
Special Districts 11
Midpeninsula Regional Open Space Authority 11
Santa Clara County Board of Education 11
Santa Clara Valley Water District 11
District 1 11
District 6 11
District 7 11
Municipal Races 12
Campbell 12
District 3 12
District 4 12
Cupertino 12
East Palo Alto 12
Fremont 12
District 2 12
District 3 13
District 4 13
Gilroy 13
District 4 13
District 5 13
District 6 13
Los Altos 14
Los Gatos 14
Menlo Park 14
District 1 14
District 2 14
District 4 14
Milpitas 15
Mayor 15
Council 15
Morgan Hill 15
Mayor 15
District B 15
District D 15
Mountain View 15
Newark 16
Palo Alto 16
San Jose 16
District 5 16
District 7 16
District 9 16
Santa Clara 16
Mayor 16
District 2 17
District 3 17
Union City 17
District 2 17
District 3 17
District 4 17
School Races- Community College Districts 18
Foothill-De Anza CCD, Area 4 18
San Jose-Evergreen CCD, Area 2 18
West Valley-Mission CCD, Area 3 18
West Valley-Mission CCD, Area 7 18
School Races- Unified & High School Districts 19
East Side Union High School District 19
District 1, Short Term 19
District 4 19
Fremont Union High School District 19
District 3 19
District 4 19
Gilroy Unified School District 19
District 3 19
District 4 19
Milpitas Unified School District 20
Morgan Hill Unified School District 20
Mountain View-Los Altos Union High School District 20
Palo Alto Unified School District 20
San Jose Unified School District 20
District 2 20
District 4 20
Santa Clara Unified School District 20
Sequoia Union High School District 21
District A 21
District D 21
School Races- Elementary Districts 22
Alum Rock Union 22
District 3 22
District 5 22
Berryessa Union 22
Campbell Union 22
District 4 22
District 5 22
Evergreen 22
Franklin-McKinley 23
Los Altos 23
Menlo Park City 23
Mountain View Whisman 23
Oak Grove 23
Orchard 23
Saratoga Union 24
Sunnyvale 24
State Propositions 25
Prop 1 25
Prop 2 25
Prop 3 25
Prop 4 25
Prop 5 25
Prop 37 26
Prop 38 26
Prop 39 26
Prop 40 26
Prop 41 27
Prop 42 27
Prop 43 27
Prop 44 28
Prop 45 28
Ballot Measures 29
Measure B - Gilroy 29
Measure D - Los Altos 29
Measure E - Redwood City 29
Measure F - Mountain View 29
Measure J - Palo Alto 29
Measure J - San Mateo County 30
Measure K - Milpitas 30
Measure L - Cupertino 30
Measure O - East Palo Alto 30
Measure P - Menlo Park 30
Measure S - El Camino Healthcare District 31
Measure U - San Mateo County 31
Measure CC - East Palo Alto 31
Measure DD - Newark 31
Measure II - Union City 31
Measure RTM - Bay Area Transit Districts 31
All school bond measures and parcel taxes 32
Statewide Races
Governor
We recommend no candidate in this race. Xavier Becerra has run a typical California Dem™ campaign: lots of words, few promises, and the eternal slogan of “I’m Not the Republican.” Becerra will win the governorship with about 61% of the vote in November, will get sworn into office in January, and will spend the next four years governing like Newsom. At least he won’t use this office as a springboard for a presidential campaign…
Lieutenant Governor
No recommendation. Fiona Ma has served as a good treasurer of the state of California for eight years and will be a good lieutenant governor. Enough said.
Secretary of State
We recommend voting for Shirley Weber. Weber's long record of civil service began in academia where she founded the Africana studies department at SDSU (which she chaired for 40 years) and served as the president of the San Diego Board of Education for 8 years. In the State Assembly she continued to advocate expanding opportunities for higher education, while fighting for the creation of the CA Reparations Task Force (the first such statewide committee in the country). Secretary of State Weber has been instrumental in expanding voting rights, reversing disenfranchisement, and redistricting through the development of CA Prop 50.
Controller
We recommend no candidate for Controller. The incumbent Malia Cohen is not in danger of losing. She is endorsed by establishment politicians and many unions, and has a war chest of large donations from PACs and the investor class. While Cohen previously supported targeted divestment in her role as commissioner of SFERS, she has yet to take any action on Tesla divestment from CalPERS, despite mounting pressure from the public. Her boilerplate talking points on affordability ring hollow as she puts in minimal effort to tackle those issues.
Treasurer
We recommend no candidate in this race. Eleni Kounalakis is a protégé of Hillary Clinton and a real estate heiress. We see no reason to support a corporate-aligned moderate to oversee the state’s accountants.
Attorney General
We recommend no candidate in this race. While Bonta did lead the fight to ban for-profit prisons and immigration centers in California, and has been decent in his opposition of the tactics of DHS and ICE, we want more from him. The Housing Justice Team which he created, has shown potential by delivering protections to tenants and accountability for local governments and landlords alike who violate state housing laws, but he has dropped the ball on SB-79 housing issues that have severely impacted multiple cities in the Bay Area. And not only did he fail to prevent the Paramount-Warner merger that will cost Californian jobs and erode civil rights for all Americans, he has also failed to investigate rights violations of student protesters at UCLA and across the state. We believe he would be a better choice than his Republican opponent Michael Gates, but Bonta’s record falls entirely short of us considering a recommendation.
Insurance Commissioner
We recommend voting for Jane Kim. While the other Democrat in the race is beholden to the special interests of corporations and real estate PACs, Kim is primarily funded by small contributions from individuals. Endorsed by Bernie Sanders, more labor unions than any other candidate (including SEIU-CA, UHW, CTA, CFT, UAW), and the Working Families Party, Kim is the only viable candidate calling for material change in insurance policy. Kim’s platform aims to replace forms of for-profit insurance with state-run programs that would provide affordable, available insurance for all, including a public option of auto insurance and a plan for Medicare for Kids.
State Board of Equalization, District 2
We recommend Sally Lieber. We have backed Lieber in her multiple campaigns over the last few years because we know she is a champion of California residents. Her continued presence on the Board of Equalization means a continued vote for fair and progressive taxation policy.
Superintendent of Public Instruction
We recommend Richard Barrera. We feel comfortable with a guy who has a good amount of experience managing San Diego’s schools who has won the backing of the state’s teachers. In comparison, Shaw is a post-Covid, right-winger backed by the Republican Party and anti-trans activist Riley Gaines. This is not a serious person who can handle the serious problems facing California public education.
Congressional Races
District 14
We recommend Aisha Wahab for a full House term. The former state senator has a long record of public service and progressive advocacy, pounding the pavement for Measure A and being a warrior for foster youth. A champion of single-payer healthcare, the repeal of Citizens United, anti-racist legislation, and the expansion of rent control, she has earned a number of progressive endorsers. These include: US Representatives Pramila Jayapal (WA-7), Greg Casar (TX-35), and Maxwell Frost (FL-10); the CA Working Families Party; and many unions, including SEIU-CA, CA Nurses Association, the AFL-CIO, and United Farm Workers. Send her back to Washington to tackle the problems of the nation.
District 15
We are not recommending anyone in this race. Kevin Mullin is a corporate-aligned Congressman and should be pushed by his constituents to back more people-friendly legislation.
District 16
We recommend no candidate in this race. Sam Liccardo is a corporate Democrat and we have no love for corporate types.
District 17
We recommend Ro Khanna. We have supported Khanna in the past for his advocacy of Medicare for All, the Green New Deal, debt free college, and his efforts to get corporate PAC money out of elections. In his recent term, Ro has continued to align with our goals by becoming a more outspoken critic of Israel’s genocide, shifting to a position of ending all military aid to Israel (including defensive weapons), has championed Prop 40, and is starting to take the lead on regulating AI by developing an Internet Bill of Rights.
District 18
We recommend Zoe Lofgren. Lofgren has been a steady progressive vote in the House for years and has been one of the key tech policy leaders there. We are not thrilled with the fact that she was one of the key figures helping funnel funds into opposing Aisha Wahab in CA-14, so we hope a strong progressive candidate emerges soon to challenge Lofgren.
District 19
We recommend no one here. Jimmy Panetta is a son of the military-industrial complex and we do not need to spend more time or money waging violence on the world.
State Assembly Races
District 21
No recommendation. Diane Papan is a centrist Democrat and we have no interest in supporting her.
District 23
No recommendation. Marc Berman is a quintessential moderate who refuses to take meaningful stances to solve homelessness and the housing crisis. We have not supported him in the past and have no intention of doing so for his swan song in the Assembly.
District 24
We recommend sitting assembly member Alex Lee. While some of Lee’s stances over the past few years have diverged from ours- his opposition to the anti-caste discrimination legislation being one of the more recent incidents- he is still one of the most progressive members of the Assembly and the leading voice on expanding public housing.
District 25
We recommend sitting assemblymember Ash Kalra. He has been the champion of a state-level single-payer healthcare program for the last half decade, writing several bills to establish Medicare-for-All, including the current version AB-1900. He stood with the Amah Mutsun people in their protection of Juristac (aka Sargent Ranch) near Gilroy and has been a staunch progressive champion in the legislature for years.
District 26
We recommend the incumbent Patrick Ahrens. As a member of the State Assembly Health Committee, he has been a reliable advocate for universal healthcare coverage for all Californians. Ahrens supports the CA Billionaire Tax Act, reallocating the budget to remove cost-barriers to higher education by making it more affordable, and replicating the successful efforts to allocate funds for affordable housing he spearheaded while president of the Foothill-De Anza Community College District Board.
District 28
We recommend Gail Pellerin. Pellerin is quietly one of the more progressive legislators in the Assembly, receiving a 97/100 from Courage California. There are some concerns with her taking a decent amount of money from law enforcement and real estate PACs, and we hope that she is ready to prioritize housing for people instead of profits for landlords when the votes come up.
State Senate Race
District 10
We do not recommend anyone in this race. Scott Sakakihara is a moderate Democrat and is not going to push for progressive policy. He has a deep background in corporate tech, having worked in Palantir’s finance department and is awash in campaign donations from Uber, Meta, and the cryptocurrency PAC Grow California. He has been a leading voice in expanding the funding and militarization of the Union City police department and is endorsed by the California Association of Realtors. No amount of labor endorsements can erase the fact he is a corporate Democrat.
Special Districts
Midpeninsula Regional Open Space Authority
Ward 1 in the southwestern corner of Santa Clara County is the only competitive seat this year. We are issuing a joint recommendation here for a rare reason: both candidates are really good. Incumbent Craig Gleason is a dedicated public servant with an extensive history of building up and out the open spaces in the Santa Cruz Mountains. Tina Marie To is a marine ecologist and enthusiastic volunteer. She helped facilitate the transition of her childhood community into the Sierra Azul Open Space above Los Gatos. Voters can do no wrong in voting for either candidate.
Santa Clara County Board of Education
District 7 in the southern part of the county features the only competitive race this year. Running for the board seat are incumbent Raeena Lari and Walsh STEAM Academy employee Karla Dominguez Vega. We recommend Raeena Lari and believe she will win a second term with ease.
Santa Clara Valley Water District
District 1
No recommendation. There is not much information available for either candidate, and what little we have found has not shown much difference between the two candidates. Voters will have to rely on local knowledge when making their choice here.
District 6
This seat is open as Tony Estremera has hit the term limit. Running to replace him are Phuong Nguyen, one of Sen. Dave Cortese’s staffers, and Milan Balinton, a former Franklin-McKinley district trustee. We recommend Balinton as he has laid out a platform that puts equity and access first.
District 7
Rebecca Eisenberg’s conduct during this years-long escapade about a report detailing her behavior towards Valley Water employees makes her unfit to continue to be an elected official. We will give a cautious recommendation to Pete Dailey though. Dailey’s platform is open to the idea that more data centers can be built in the future, a position that the community should be pressuring him to change.
Municipal Races
Campbell
District 3
We recommend Joseph Brenner for this seat because we generally like his platform vision. Daniel Furtado has served well over the decades, but he is a man who legislates for today. Brenner, with a focus on smart growth, deepening communal ties, and plans to address climate change, make him a legislator for tomorrow.
District 4
We recommend no one for this race. We do not see the anti-housing Fields as a good choice for Campbell, but Guardado does not seem to have much of a shot with his shoe-string campaign.
Cupertino
We recommend the slate of J.R. Fruen, John Tang, and Seema Lindskog. Housing development will be coming to Cupertino, with or without the approval of the city council. The anti-housing candidates will only guarantee that state-backed Builder’s Remedy will be the dominant housing solution in Cupertino. These three candidates will work to facilitate housing growth in Cupertino that stays in the hands of the community.
East Palo Alto
There is a strong field of candidates in East Palo Alto for the two open seats. Ruben Abrica, the incumbent, has been a long term advocate for affordable housing. There are other good choices in the race, but none have the track record that Abrica has established in the last 40 plus years. We also recommend Ofelia Bello. She has been a long term advocate for tenant rights and affordable housing. She seems to have solid support behind her campaign.
Fremont
District 2
We recommend Desrie Campbell. She has been the lone vote against the homeless encampment ban, she has worked towards affordable housing, and she has emphasized services that help the unhoused in Fremont instead of punishing them. Campbell has also worked on protecting the immigrant community and advancing on climate change policies. This is a candidate that will help the people.
District 3
We recommend Kathy Kimberlin. Kimberlin had pushed to ensure that the “aiding and abetting” provision in the 2025 camping ordinance was removed to allow nonprofits to be able to help the unhoused population. She has supported refugee resettlement programs, affordable housing programs, and expanding food and shelter for the unhoused.
District 4
We recommend Aziz Akbari. Although he has not held a seat like the others running in the different districts, he is running on progressive policies, such as protecting immigrant communities by not having local cooperation with ICE, expanding affordable and transit-oriented housing, and enacting stronger renter protections. His record on the Alameda County Water District also includes expanding assistance for low-income households to help keep access to clean water affordable.
Gilroy
District 4
We do not recommend any candidate in this race. Fred Tovar has voted against transit, against housing, and against renter protections when he was previously in office. There is a preference for Diana Sanchez Bentz as she at least pays lip service to improving services in low-income apartment complexes in Gilroy. However, there is little else to go off of in the way of policy or issues besides her focus on transparency and good governance.
District 5
We do not recommend any candidate in this race. Tom Cline is the worst choice of the three candidates running. He supports increased policing and is a supporter of the potential Amazon data center in Gilroy. Joseph Garcia is the only candidate in the district whose platform includes calling for capping “unfair” rent increases. He also is the only candidate of the three to express skepticism around the new data center. As such, he is likely the safest choice, despite not having a well developed platform or track record to go off of. Christina Tovar seems to be business oriented and also is lacking in policy proposals.
District 6
We recommend Rebeca Armendariz. Armendariz has been a steady progressive voice on the council. She has been active in organizing against ICE and has fought for racial and economic justice in Gilroy. She is the clear choice in the race.
Los Altos
Los Altos is having its first district elections this year, with the new 2nd District being the one competitive race this year. Two candidates have filed to run for this seat and we recommend voters choose Anky van Deursen for the seat. van Deursen is a Housing Manager for the City of Mountain View and sits on Los Altos’ Rent Stabilization Commission. Her campaign priorities are housing for service workers, an emphasis on quality of living for retirees, and more kid/bike safe streets. Lynette Lee Eng is a disgraced former councilmember who was pressured to resign after accusing a black resident of threatening her family over BLM discussions in 2021. Her platform priorities are vaguely about “governing with respect and integrity.”
Los Gatos
We recommend Rob Moore and Jeff Suzuki. Moore is a knowledgeable leader and has been a good steward of the Los Gatos community the last four years. Suzuki’s history of activism and policy knowledge ensure that equity and justice will always be at the forefront of his policies.
Menlo Park
District 1
We do not recommend any candidate in this race. Neither candidate has staked out positions that set each apart in a meaningful way. Wonman Lee might be the slightly better choice, if only because he has the clearest messaging and appears to recognize the problem of NIMBYism in Menlo Park.
District 2
We do not recommend any candidate in this race. Neither candidate stands apart here. Drew Combs, the incumbent, has been on the wrong side of the housing debate on the council at times. His opponent, Velgapudi, seems to be running primarily because he doesn’t like the way things are done at city council meetings. He has not been able to articulate a reason that he warrants a vote.
District 4
We recommend Charlotte Reed. While she does not have a proven record, her position on affordable housing in downtown Menlo Park puts her well ahead of her venture capitalist opponent, Laura Melahn. Melahn was unwilling to take a position on development of housing in downtown.
Milpitas
Mayor
We recommend Hon Lien. Lien’s record includes expanding affordable housing, preserving housing for low-income residents, and providing resources and services to unhoused people. She has advocated direct public support of the Milpitas Food Pantry, proposing $5,000 per month in city funding for two years to help it continue providing food and assistance to families, seniors, veterans, and other residents in need.
Council
We recommend only Seema Kanani in this race. Kanani served on the executive board of SEIU-UHW, and while she was in this capacity she helped organize during the 2023 Kaiser strike that secured significant wage increases for healthcare workers. She also advocated for protecting immigrant patients and making housing more affordable for working families, seniors, and lower-income residents.
Morgan Hill
Mayor
We do not recommend any candidate in this race. Incumbent Mark Turner is a business- aligned moderate, while the two candidates also running, Debora Africa and Kristopher Clayton, do not have backgrounds or policy positions that set them apart in any meaningful way.
District B
We do not recommend any candidate in this race. The incumbent Yvonne Martinez Beltran is a moderate Democrat. She has recently run into trouble with fellow council members for her inflammatory comments. Despite that, her opponent - Steven Hayes - does not really present a distinct platform warranting serious consideration.
District D
We recommend Dolores Alvarado. She is endorsed by several labor organizations and a slate of progressive local leaders. Her incumbent opponent Marilyn Libers has for years opposed large housing developments in the city. Alvarado is the clear choice in this race.
Mountain View
We recommend Erik Poicon, IdaRose Sylvester, and James Kuszmaul. All three are local progressive organizers running on affordable housing growth to stave off Builder’s Remedy and empowering downtown to continue to thrive.
Newark
We recommend incumbent Matthew Jorgens. Jorgens is a bonafide progressive with a very detailed platform that balances the needs to grow as a city and the wants of the community to keep their small-town feel.
Palo Alto
We recommend Raymond Goins. Palo Alto needs progressive voices on the council and the current batch of neoliberals jostling for the 3 seats are underwhelming. Goins is an outspoken critic of increased policing and surveillance and will work to represent the underserved communities in Palo Alto.
San Jose
District 5
We recommend Peter Ortiz. Ortiz has served as a champion for East San Jose, advocating for and delivering new investments into the arts, housing, education, and parks for District 5. He continues to lead in his community and the community, in turn, supports him. In contrast, Campos is part of the business-wing alliance that has propped up her and her family in the district for years.
District 7
We do not recommend either candidate. Bien Doan and Van Le have very little difference in their policy platforms and politics, meaning that both candidates will be aligned with the business faction on the city council.
District 9
We recommend Gordon Chester. Chester is a city civil engineer and understands the need to invest in public infrastructure and not back away from expanding public transit. He also will work to curtail the overbloated police budget and reinvest those funds back into community safety programs, something we doubt former cop Altwer will do.
Santa Clara
Mayor
We do not recommend a candidate in this race. Kevin Park, current councilmember has been strong against ICE, ALPRs and Data Centers, but has had an uncomfortably close past with 49ers ownership. Karen Hardy shares the 49ers issue, but lacks the bonafides of Park and is conservative. Gary Ferraris, while having some labor group backing, is a conservative as well as being the 49ers’ dedicated pick. David Kertes and Kathy Watanabe have been strong opponents of the 49ers, but have a close relationship to Mayor Lisa Gillmor and the established business community. On top of that Kertes has personal baggage such as a failed recall attempt to replace a current councilmember.
District 2
We do not recommend either candidate. Yvonne Inciarte and Kimberley Williams do not have much variety in their platforms, meaning that both candidates will have a similar impact on the City Council if elected. Williams seems to be the 49ers pick.
District 3
We do not recommend either candidate. Eric Crutchlow is the current City Planning Commission Chair campaigning on limiting council meeting lengths, which seems a dangerous tool to allow bypassing public input. Kyle Madej is a private security CEO running on increasing police funding and little else.
Union City
District 2
We recommend Victor Pulido for this seat. Pulido is a community organizer and Human Relations commissioner who is advocating for municipal food stores, renter protections, and investments into the working families of Union City. We couldn’t agree more.
District 3
We recommend Cheris Crocker-Root. Jeff Wang is a rarity in the Bay Area- an elected Republican. By extension, he is inherently okay with the anti-human agenda of his party and should not be near any lever of power. Crocker-Root will at least work to address the root causes of problems instead of just kvetch about the ills of society.
District 4
This is the most crowded and weakest field of candidates in Union City elections this year. Bajwa and Lodhi are business-aligned moderates who will not solve the problems of today with adequacy. Yap-Jequinto is a good person without a plan. That leaves us to recommend teacher Sarabjit Cheema, who at least has decent plans to address housing and development.
School Races- Community College Districts
Foothill-De Anza CCD, Area 4
We recommend Bill Wilson. Wilson is a Foothill professor and is endorsed by the rest of trustees and the South Bay Labor Council.
San Jose-Evergreen CCD, Area 2
We recommend no one for this race. Incumbent Karen Martinez is a pro-police moderate and not of our liking. Meanwhile, Scott Pham abandoned his seat before getting sworn in when he was elected to the Alum Rock Union board of trustees.
West Valley-Mission CCD, Area 3
We are giving a joint recommendation here. Incumbent Anne Kepner is a progressive leader and has been advocating to make tuition free for the two colleges. Colin Glaves is backed by faculty and is advocating for more teacher-board coordination. Both candidates are also endorsed by the South Bay Labor Council.
West Valley-Mission CCD, Area 7
We recommend Doug Robb, who is endorsed by the faculty union and the South Bay Labor Council.
School Races- Unified & High School Districts
East Side Union High School District
District 1, Short Term
We recommend Meredith “Mer” Nunez. Nunez has a minimal platform, but a long history of advocacy and work to indicate that she is ready to tackle the problems facing education these days.
District 4
We recommend incumbent Lorena Chavez. Chavez has plans to continue to build off the good work she has done in office already and is endorsed by loads of local progressives.
Fremont Union High School District
District 3
We recommend Rosa Kim. Kim is a perfectly fine trustee and we don’t trust serial tech entrepreneur Lin to oversee a public sector board.
District 4
We are going with a joint recommendation here. Naomi Nakano-Matsumoto is a veteran trustee who has done a lot to help the district. Ilanit Eliaz is a special education teacher who could bring a unique view to the board and has won a lot of local support. Voters are lucky to have two solid candidates to choose from.
Gilroy Unified School District
District 3
We recommend incumbent Michelle Nelson. Nelson is a union leader and health teacher and has served as a good liaison between the workers and the district.
District 4
We recommend Jane Stevens for this seat as she has a decent platform and the backing of the Gilroy Teachers Association.
Milpitas Unified School District
We recommend Chris Norwood. Norwood backs the Workforce Development Center in the district, a great community resource for connecting students with local jobs.
Morgan Hill Unified School District
We recommend the four labor and teacher endorsed candidates in each district: Nancy Altman-Palm in the 1st, Gabriela Winter in the 2nd, Sarah Northrup Gadus in the 3rd, and Glen Webb in the 4th.
Mountain View-Los Altos Union High School District
We recommend Thida Cornes for the open 3rd District seat. Cornes has been a fantastic advocate for the disadvantaged in the district and will continue to fight for equity on the board.
Palo Alto Unified School District
We recommend Linda Henigin. Henigin is an experienced teacher who has demonstrated solidarity with the diverse school population in Palo Alto and advocates for their betterment.
San Jose Unified School District
District 2
We recommend Tomara Hall. Hall has over a decade of experience as a public school teacher and learning specialist, and we believe she will fight for funding and to send resources to schools according to their need. This includes supporting mental health services, resources for learning differences, funding for programs specific to multilingual learners, and restorative practices that keep students learning. Tomara believes it is time to stop asking schools with the greatest needs to do more with less.
District 4
We recommend Michael Melillo. Melillo was a former trustee and it shows in his platform. He has detailed plans to improve transparency in the district and remove police officers from campuses.
Santa Clara Unified School District
We do not recommend Jim Canova. We’re not convinced Kamal Yassin is a great choice, but the district should not have an AI lobbyist in its leadership ranks. Yassin is an improvement on that front.
Sequoia Union High School District
District A
We recommend the incumbent Amy Koo for District A. Her opponent Alon Shiran is a stringent Zionist running on “saving the district from antisemitism lawsuits” brought by Zionist families.
District D
Sathvik Nori announced he would not run for reelection despite qualifying for the ballot. He has since withdrawn but his name will still appear on the ballot. Michael Dekshenieks is unofficially unopposed on the ballot.
School Races- Elementary Districts
Alum Rock Union
District 3
We recommend Delia Oseguera. Oseguera brings some fresh blood into the district leadership and earning the trust of the teachers’ union is a major plus in our eyes.
District 5
We recommend Jenny Ludwig. Linda Chavez has shown disdain for the LGBTQ+ students of the district at a time when they need allies protecting their rights. Ludwig is an educator who has stood up for those students and will stand up for all students as a trustee.
Berryessa Union
We recommend Shanna Brewer and Jaria Jaug. Both incumbents have been stalwart leaders on the board and have earned the trust of Berryessa teachers.
Campbell Union
District 4
We do not recommend either candidate. Chris Miller’s past as a teacher is a plus, but he does not have much of a platform to judge off of. Mohit Vora has the backing of labor and teachers, but we are not completely convinced with his platform either and have concerns his AI-detecting tool might lead to a conflict of interest on the school board.
District 5
We recommend Vartika Chandra for this seat. Chandra’s support from and connections with the district’s teachers give her the leg up over Krow-Lucal here.
Evergreen
We recommend Johnny Ray Reyna and Monte Wright. Reyna is a district educator and stands in solidarity with his fellow educators. Wright is a nurse and is backed by the South Bay Labor Council and the Evergreen Teachers Association.
Franklin-McKinley
We recommend voting against Marc Cooper and Gilbert Borrayo. Cooper is a right-wing loon, who kicked off his time on the board by getting censured by his fellow trustees for promoting untrue narratives about critical race theory being taught in the district. He is backed by the local Moms for Liberty chapter and continues to spout anti-LGBTQ rhetoric on his social media. Borrayo is a former KIPP employee and works with organizations trying to expand private charter schools into the public school system, something we as socialists are avidly against.
Los Altos
In a race where no one is serious about building informative websites, we recommend David Poll, since he at least has a decent platform and is endorsed by the teachers’ union.
Menlo Park City
We recommend Jed Scolnick, Maya Herstein, and Andrew Barnes for the open seats. While incumbent Sherwin Chen has earned credit for guiding the district through deficit issues, his finance background bears a bit of a red flag for long term education policy.
Mountain View Whisman
We recommend Devon Conley and Sundar Subbarayan. Conley has been a strong driver behind expanding free after school programs for low-income families, building out literacy programs, and bringing on new student counselors. Like the two remaining candidates in the race, Subbarayan runs on a budget accountability platform, but his information is the most grounded and student focused of the three.
Oak Grove
We recommend Victor Ramirez for District 1, Sophie Freestone for District 3, and Paul Chun for District 5. Each holds a labor backing, Freestone being firmly outspoken in favor of the teacher’s union, while Chun and Ramirez are the only ones in their respective races with direct education experience.
Orchard
We recommend Lyseria Phillips, a staunch union member firmly in favor of teacher’s protections and community building. We also recommend against Katherine Kasolas-Jacobson, whose husband also sits as a trustee, and with whom she has dominated board meetings enough to trigger the resignation of the district’s superintendent in 2017.
As there are three seats up for election in this race, and due to the very recent and tragic loss of incumbent board member Lo, we thus gently recommend Jeff Tang and Molly Eslao for the remaining 2 seats.
Saratoga Union
We recommend Anna Goldberg, Farnoush Drexel, and Vidya Vineet. Goldberg has the endorsement of the teacher’s association and comes in with a pretty clear vision for an education platform by the standards of most school board campaigns. Drexel and Vineet are both active community members with solid stances on education.
Sunnyvale
We recommend Rommy Kushner for District 3. A Spanish educator heavily involved in the Sunnyvale community, Kushner also carries an endorsement from Sunnyvale Safe Streets and is an advocate for higher walking and biking accessibility for students commuting to and from school.
State Propositions
Prop 1
We urge a Yes vote on Prop 1. It authorizes a $11.25 billion bond that is focused on adding and preserving affordable housing. It also assists veterans and attempts to create longer lasting programs for the unhoused population. The funds are necessary, given the current housing and affordability crises throughout the state.
Prop 2
We urge a Yes vote on this proposition. It is a straightforward increase of the percentage of the budget the state is allowed to keep in the Rainy Day Fund. In years where there is an economic surplus, California could put double the amount of money into savings. In turn, that money could be spent on services and programs during an economic downturn. The state’s ability to do that is currently limited by the percentage limitation and this proposition fixes that.
Prop 3
Silicon Valley DSA endorses a Yes vote on Prop 3. The Children’s Education and Health Care Protection Act would make permanent the temporary income tax imposed on the top 2% of income earners by Proposition 55 in 2016. This tax raised $14 billion last year for public education and health care. The loss of that funding would be catastrophic.
Prop 4
This measure would lift the statewide ban on public financing of campaigns and allow the state and local governments to establish programs that grant public funds to supplement campaigns. Public campaign financing is used across multiple states and municipalities, including New York City, Seattle, San Francisco, and Oakland. These systems have been proven to boost corporate-free candidates for office and blunt some of the effects of wealthy corporations and the uber-rich spending millions in local elections. We urge voters to vote Yes on this measure to continue to fight back against the monied forces rigging our democracy.
Prop 5
We are neutral on this measure. Separating the recall election from the recall question is a better use of election resources, and having the Lt. Governor take over for a recalled governor makes sense. What we are leery about is the second reform, allowing a recalled officer to run in the special election created by their removal. If someone is so unpopular that they are recalled, that is a reflection of popular opinion. Allowing that recalled official to run again in an election where we use a plurality system instead of a majoritarian system like ranked choice voting means that there is a chance the recalled official wins, a defiance to democratic choice- and a waste of everyone’s time and public resources.
Prop 37
This homebuyer program and bond initiative is being funded by the same billionaires trying to stop Prop 40 - Sergey Brin and his cynically named ‘Building a Better California’ PAC. It’s also funded by his friends in real estate and construction, and endorsed by a number of corrupt politicians. We recommend a No vote on this measure. Any potential upfront benefit only obscures the costs and intentions of this measure. New home buyers are locked into a program with imperfect information. One thing is certain, this will create more debt, which benefits the home builders and real estate firms which are intentionally financializing homes into assets. Homes are for living in - they’re a human necessity. Follow the money.
Prop 38
This measure would issue $8.4 billion in bonds for immunotherapy and immunology research. The money would be split evenly between a UC-affiliated research institute and non-profit research institutes focused on immunology research. While we like scientific research, we recommend a No vote on this measure. CalMatters found that the measure was written to benefit only one institute, the California Institute for Immunology and Immunotherapy. CIII is founded and funded primarily by billionaire Gary Michelson. Michelson is the one who authored Prop 38, and- along with billionaire Meyer Luskin of Scope Industries- is the primary funder of the Yes campaign. We should not be subsidizing the projects of the uber-rich, regardless if they are corporate aligned or non-profit aligned.
Prop 39
This measure would institute new voter id laws and a more aggressive voter roll monitoring system. We recommend No on this measure. California already has a secure end-to-end system to check people’s identities when they register and vote. This measure is designed to disenfranchise voters and intimidate people unnecessarily. Most alarming is the requirement to put parts of your government id on mail-in ballots, a massive privacy threat.
Prop 40
Silicon Valley DSA endorses a Yes vote on Prop 40. We need to fund healthcare, not continue to allow the ultra-rich to buy ever more mansions and yachts, and invest in job-killing AI. It’s time to tax the rich. The 2026 Billionaire Tax Act would levy a one-time 5% wealth tax on individuals worth more than $1 billion in order to offset the loss of almost $100 billion in federal funding for Medi-Cal. Without this funding, thousands of jobs will be lost, millions of Californians could lose coverage altogether, and care facilities across the state could be forced to close. The billionaires have spent over $150 million against Prop 40. They have also funded two competing ballot measures, Prop 41 & Prop 42. For Prop 40 to become law, it must receive more votes than both Prop 41 & Prop 42. People will die if we do not pass Prop 40, therefore it is a no-brainer to vote Yes on Prop 40.
Prop 41
Silicon Valley DSA endorses a NO vote on Prop 41, and highly encourages everyone to vote down this cynical, billionaire-funded bill. Follow the money! Billionaires like Sergei Brin, John Doerr, Peter Thiel, Chris Larsen, Eric Schmidt, and Stuart Resnick have spent well over $150 million on competing ballot measures aimed at preventing the implementation of Prop 40. As a competing ballot measure, for Prop 40 (the “billionaire tax”) to become law, it must receive more votes than BOTH Prop 41 & 42. People will die if we do not pass Prop 40, therefore it is a no-brainer to vote no on Prop 41.
Prop 42
Silicon Valley DSA also endorses a NO vote on Prop 42, and highly encourages everyone to vote down this cynical, billionaire-funded bill. This is the second of two competing ballot measures aimed at preventing the implementation of Prop 40. These billionaires will stop at nothing to prevent us from taking back a crumb of the wealth they have stolen from regular people. They know preventing Prop 40 from becoming law will mean the closing of dozens hospitals, hundreds of healthcare professionals losing their jobs, and the deaths of tens of thousands of our fellow Californians who will lose coverage because Trump took $100 billion in healthcare funding from California, to give tax cuts to his billionaire friends. Prop 42 is written by, and is in service to the worst people in society - the billionaire class. As a competing ballot measure, for Prop 40 (the “billionaire tax”) to become law, it must receive more votes than Prop 41 & Prop 42. People will die if we do not pass Prop 40, therefore it is a no-brainer to vote no on Prop 42.
Prop 43
This measure would require a two-thirds vote by the electorate to enact, extend, or increase local special tax initiatives and prohibit local jurisdictions and ballot initiatives from enacting ad valorem property taxes, except for voter-approved bond debt-service taxes authorized elsewhere in the state constitution. We will be recommending No on this measure. Evolve California warns "if this measure passes, it will make California the hardest place in the country to raise local revenue." With the federal government increasingly threatening the funding of our public services, we cannot let anti-tax sentiments choke out the last of our public services.
Prop 44
No recommendation. The nonprofit federally qualified health centers this measure is directed at do need some more regulation and oversight, particularly in not meddling with unionization efforts. However, using the ballot initiative process as a negotiation tactic, which SEIU-UHW has done several times before, does not garner positive relations with the public and should not be condoned.
Prop 45
This measure would shorten deadlines and environmental reviews for a number of infrastructure projects in California by making changes to the California Environmental Quality Act and the Permit Streamlining Act. We will be recommending No on this measure. The CEQA does need some adjusting and 21st century modernizing, but to rely on a corporate authored measure like Prop 45 is stupendously detrimental.
Ballot Measures
Measure B - Gilroy
Measure B would increase Gilroy’s Transient Occupancy Tax (hotel tax) to the maximum rate of 13% to fund weather emergency preparedness, fire/police, and park/street infrastructure. Gilroy has one of the highest per capita homelessness rates in the Bay Area, nearly double that of San Jose. Considering the large unhoused/underhoused population that rely on these rooms, such a tax would hit these already struggling residents the hardest. We recommend voting No.
Measure D - Los Altos
Measure D would prohibit Los Altos from selling/leasing/donating downtown parking plazas without a ballot measure. The Measure has former mayors, council members, and park commissioners on both sides of the argument. The main argument is to prevent commercial development that city parking infrastructure can’t handle (especially if diminished by development). While the language does imply that housing would be exempted from such a ballot measure, the City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis states that this is not the case and highlights that YIMBY Law Group is threatening a future court case. We recommend voting No.
Measure E - Redwood City
Silicon Valley DSA is proud to endorse Yes on Measure E. This measure would implement rent control on certain residential rentals in Redwood City and provide more protections for renters. Housing for all means ensuring that people can afford to stay in their homes and not end up on the street. Vote Yes to keep people homed in Redwood City.
Measure F - Mountain View
Measure F permits the Mountain View city council to raise the hotel tax upwards to 15% from its current rate of 10%. Generated revenue would go to the city’s General Fund. We recommend voting Yes on this measure. Mountain View is close to Levi’s Stadium and the tech titans, meaning that the majority of the tax burden will fall on wealthy travelers and not on the people of Mountain View, an ideal progressive tax.
Measure J - Palo Alto
Measure J is a 0.5% sales tax aiming to raise ~$15 million for purchasing 7 acres from Palo Alto Unified School District to expand and renovate Cubberley Community Center. The Palo Alto City Council voted unanimously to put this Measure on the ballot. The opponents of the measure (spearheaded by anti-tax groups and former mayor Lydia Kou) state that the taxes raised are not required to go to the stated purpose of purchasing and renovating the community center. The City Attorney concurs with them in their analysis, but also states that the City has historically honored spending guidelines such as the one passed specifying the funds go to Cubberley. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure J - San Mateo County
Measure J for San Mateo County extends the period required for the County Board of Supervisors to call an election or make an appointment in event of a vacancy from 30 to 60 days, and also requires the board to conduct one public comment session prior to appointment. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure K - Milpitas
Measure K would impose a ~0.025%-0.035% gross receipt tax on businesses with greater than $700,000 in annual revenue. This plans to raise roughly $3 million annually for city finances and neighborhood infrastructure. Opposition to the measure is largely spearheaded by the anti-tax Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure L - Cupertino
Measure L would require a two-thirds vote by Cupertino voters to authorize rezoning of parks, parklands, or open spaces to residential, commercial, or industrial zones. This is overwhelmingly supported by ~70% of Cupertino residents surveyed in June. We recommend voting Yes. Part of making the Bay Area a livable area is to pair amenities with housing. This includes keeping our current parklands as parks and building dense housing near them, not on them.
Measure O - East Palo Alto
Measure O would impose a 1.5% tax on revenue of owners who lease 5+ units in EPA to raise ~600k in funds for local services. There are certain exceptions for Section 8/below market housing, and only units which have had a certificate of occupancy for 10+ years are counted. This was passed 4-1 by their city council and had no organized opposition. It is largely popular with residents. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure P - Menlo Park
Measure P would prohibit Menlo Park from selling/leasing/donating city-owned land if it would reduce parking availability without a voter measure. This is spearheaded by Alex Beltramo, a local business owner who wants to ensure existing parking lots for Menlo Park’s commercial downtown on Santa Cruz Ave is not developed into parking structures with affordable housing on top. We recommend voting No.
Measure S - El Camino Healthcare District
Measure S amends the El Camino Healthcare District bylaws to limit district directors to four 4-year terms. Currently there are no term limits. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure U - San Mateo County
Measure U would change San Mateo County’s districting process from an ordinance approved by the Board of Supervisors to a redrawn-each-decade by independent commission process. The independent commission would be elected by district. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure CC - East Palo Alto
Measure CC imposes a three consecutive term limit on city council members, with a partial term of 2+ years counting as a full term. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure DD - Newark
Measure DD would implement a business tax increase of up to 0.3% on gross receipts to raise an estimated $6 million annually to fund police/fire services, street infrastructure, and weather emergency preparedness. The tax restructuring would also lower taxes for smaller businesses. The City Attorney notes in their independent analysis that the city is not bound to use the funds for the stated purpose as long as they are used to support city services. Proponents say 87% of local retail businesses will pay lower business license taxes under this restructuring. Opposition, led by Council Member Terrence Grindall claims the taxes will be passed on to residents through price increases. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure II - Union City
Measure II would extend the existing Utility Users Tax at the current rate of 5% for another 9 years, raising an estimated $7m annually. The stated intent for the funds is for funding emergency response systems, street infrastructure, and violence prevention programs but as with other similar measures it is a general tax which the city is not bound to use for those purposes as long as it is spent for local services.The measure would also continue the allowance of exceptions for 70+ year old as well as low income residents, and continue the existing audits of the collection and expenditures by a third party. The only opposition seems to come from Alameda County Taxpayers’ Association. We recommend voting Yes.
Measure RTM - Bay Area Transit Districts
We recommend you vote Yes. If we don’t approve this critical funding measure, everyday people will face longer, more expensive commutes. Transit services across the Bay Area will be slashed by up to 70%, leading to closed stations, longer waits, and abandoned routes. While a sales tax is not our favored method, it’s unfortunately the only legal option at this time.
All school bond measures and parcel taxes
These measures are for issuing bonds or renewing parcel taxes in school districts across Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties. We recognize that the way these measures generate funds are not the best way to fund our education system and that these are ultimately regressive and affect everyday people more so than the rich or business communities. However, given how undersupported our education funding is in California, these measures are the only viable ways to maintain current school funding. We recommend that everybody vote Yes on their local measure, then call your state assemblymember and senator to have them work on ways to fully fund our public education systems.