Show Mobile Menu
Voter Guide
Bay Area Progressive Voter Guide – Midterm Elections
Jump to: Priority Measures, Candidates, Ballot Initiatives, Analysis
Quick and easy PDF version of ballot initiatives to print.
Guide to voting in CA.
The billionaire-backed MAGA movement is attacking our elections. Bay Area Big Tech CEO’s are propping up the regime while also pouring billions of dollars into local and state-level politics to advance their agenda.
As attacks on our elections and democracy intensify leading up to the midterms, so must our readiness. The fight to defend democracy from an authoritarian power grab is fought in battleground states and here in the Bay Area.
Get ready to defend democracy against attempts to undermine the midterm elections.
Get educated below about who and what is on your ballot, and make a plan to vote.
Get connected to Bay Rising Action partners on the ground, organizing in working class communities of color.
Together, we can block the tech-backed authoritarian regime while building solutions toward a Bay Area where all of us are safe, housed, healthy, and cared for.
Where we win housing affordability and defend the right to our homes.
Where corporations pay what is owed, and we fund our futures.
Where we expose the corporate money rigging our elections, and forward real democracy.
We need elected officials who will fight with us for the solutions we need. The California Working Families Party is building a new political voice for the multi-racial working class that cares for all of us. CA WFP endorses candidates and elected officials who represent our needs, not those of corporate donors.
Here are Bay Rising Action’s endorsements for ballot initiatives aligned with our vision and for candidates who stand with people, not corporations. Endorsing organizations’ members, leaders, and staff—rooted in working class communities of color—decided on the positions taken in this voter guide.
SUMMARY: Our Top Priority Ballot Measure Recommendations
(click here or scroll down for the full list)
California
YES Prop 4: Allow Public Financing for Fair Elections
NO Prop 39: Suppress Voting Rights
YES Prop 40: Establish a One-time 5% Billionaire Tax
NO Prop 41 & 42: Block the Billionaire Tax & Ban on Future Billionaire Taxes
NO Prop 43: Make it Harder to Fund Local Services
Local Measures
YES for Transit and Transportation
YES Measure RTM: Alameda, Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara Counties: Reinvest in Regional Public Transit
YES Prop H: San Francisco: Strengthens Muni Transit Operations
YES for Rent Control, Renter Protections, and Affordable Housing
YES Measure S: San Pablo: Stabilize Rents & Protect Against Unjust Evictions
YES Measure E: Redwood City: Stabilize Rents & Protect Against Unjust Evictions
YES Prop I: San Francisco: Ensure Luxury Real Estate Tax is Spent on Affordable Housing
YES on Good Government and Real Democracy
YES Measure EE: Oakland: Make City Hall Accountable to Oaklanders
NO Props D, E, F: San Francisco: Make it Harder to Qualify a Ballot Measure; Strengthen Mayoral Power
YES for Public Banks
YES Measure Z: Berkeley: Generate Seed Funding for Public Bank
YES Prop B: San Francisco: Authorize Creation of Public Bank
While some of our endorsed ballot measures rely on regressive parcel or sales taxes, we know these are short-term fixes. To sustain our public infrastructure, build affordable housing, and fund the services our communities need for the long term, we need to tax the rich so that large corporations and billionaires contribute in proportion to their wealth.
In Oakland and San Francisco, Bay Rising Action and our endorsing partners are supporting changes to the Mayor’s authority in Oakland, but not in San Francisco. Why? Oakland’s charter reform proposals followed a community-based process with extensive input, in partnership with groups like the League of Women Voters. In San Francisco, the Mayor’s proposals come only from the Mayor, without deep community input, and would concentrate power in his hands.
Interested in learning more or taking action beyond election day? Check out Bay Rising’s Partner Organizations and related issue areas from our Solutions Springboard.
CANDIDATES
The California Working Families Party’s Bay Area candidate endorsements are here! Check out endorsements by county: Alameda, Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara.
Bay Rising Action is a member of the California Working Families Party (CA WFP). CA WFP interviewed candidates based on an agenda and a guarantee that puts people over corporations and the wealthy.
The guarantee includes 1) a safe and affordable home, 2) quality healthcare, 3) protection for immigrant communities, and 4) living wages for all.
BALLOT INITIATIVES
Find more information on local and state propositions from our partners at San Francisco Rising Action Fund, Oakland Rising Action and We Are California. Bolded positions are Bay Rising Action priorities.
CALIFORNIA:
District | Measure | Position | Description | Related Issue Area
California | Proposition 1 | Yes | Fund Affordable Housing through Bond | Right to our Homes; Funding Our Future
California | Proposition 2 | Yes | Expand Rainy Day Fund to Save for CA’s Future | Funding Our Future
California | Proposition 3 | Yes | Maintain School Funding through Renewing Income Tax on Top 2% (Prop 30/55 Extension) | Funding Our Future
California | Proposition 4 | Yes | Allow Public Financing for Fair Elections | Real Democracy
California | Proposition 5 | Yes | Reform the Recall Process of Elected Officials | Real Democracy
California | Proposition 37 | Neutral/No Position | Create Second Mortgage Program for Middle-Class Home-Buyers | Right to our Homes
California | Proposition 38 | Yes | Fund Immunology & Medical Research through Bond | Care for Young People & Families
California | Proposition 39 | No | Suppress Voting Rights | Real Democracy
California | Proposition 40 | Yes | Establish a one-time 5% Billionaire Tax | Funding Our Future
California | Proposition 41 | No | Block the Billionaire Tax | Funding Our Future
California | Proposition 42 | No | Ban on Future Billionaire Taxes | Funding Our Future
California | Proposition 43 | No | Make it Harder to Fund Local Services | Funding Our Future
California | Proposition 44 | No | Restrict Community Clinic Spending that Serves Low-Income & Immigrant Communities | Care for Young People & Families
California | Proposition 45 | No | Weaken Clean Air & Water Protections on Construction Projects (CEQA rollback) | Right to our Homes;
Environmental Justice & Just Transition
BAY AREA COUNTY:
Check out the ballot measures Bay Rising Action has endorsed in six counties. Bolded positions are Bay Rising Action priorities.
Jump to your county: Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin County, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara
Multi-County
District | Measure | Position | Description | Endorsing Organization | Issue Area
Alameda
Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, &Santa Clara Counties | Measure RTM | Yes | Reinvest in regional public transit
Enact 0.5% sales tax for public transit, 1% in San Francisco | Oakland Rising Action, San Francisco Rising Action Fund, Silicon Valley Rising Action | Funding our Futures
Alameda
District | Measure | Position | Description | Endorsing Organization | Issue Area
Oakland | Measure EE | Yes | Clarifies Mayor and City Council roles; Mayoral veto power | Oakland Rising Action | Real Democracy
Oakland | Measure FF | Yes | Require landlords who buy foreclosed property to pay the real estate transfer tax | Oakland Rising Action | Funding our Futures
Berkeley | Measure X | Yes | Strengthen the rent ordinance & just cause eviction| Right to our Homes
Berkeley | Measure Z | Yes | Generate seed funding for a public bank through a parcel tax| Economy for People and Planet
Contra Costa
District | Measure | Position | Description | Endorsing Organization | Issue Area
San Pablo | Measure S | Yes | Stabilize rents & protect against unjust evictions | Lift Up Contra Costa | Right to our Homes
Marin County
District | Measure | Position | Description | Endorsing Organization | Issue Area
Marin County | Measure P | Yes | Fund childcare and early childhood education | Parent Voices California | Care for Young People and Families
San Francisco
District | Measure | Position | Description | Endorsing Organization | Issue Area
San Francisco | Proposition A | No | Change charter affecting various city departments & commissions | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Real Democracy
San Francisco | Proposition B | Yes | Authorize the creation of a public bank | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Economy for People and Planet
San Francisco | Proposition C | Yes | Increase funds to the Housing Trust Fund; Support Affordable Housing | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Right to our Homes
San Francisco | Proposition D | No | Make qualifying a ballot measure harder | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Real Democracy
San Francisco | Proposition E | No | Extend City Administrator duties & change city contracting | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Real Democracy
San Francisco | Proposition F | No | Allow the Mayor to reorganize the executive branch; Strengthen Mayoral power | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Real Democracy
San Francisco | Proposition G | Neutral | Allow private vehicles to use the Upper Great Highway | San Francisco Rising Action Fund
San Francisco | Proposition H | Yes | Strengthen Muni transit operations | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Funding our Futures
San Francisco | Proposition I | Yes | Ensure the luxury real estate transfer tax is spent on affordable housing | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Right to our Homes
San Francisco | Proposition J | Yes | Require corporate landlords who buy foreclosed property to pay the real estate transfer tax | San Francisco Rising Action Fund | Funding our Futures
San Mateo
District | Measure | Position | Description (link to analysis) | Endorsing Organization | Issue Area
Redwood City | Measure E | Yes | Stabilize rents & protect against unjust evictions | Faith in Action Bay Area | Right to our Homes
CALIFORNIA PRIORITY BALLOT MEASURES ANALYSIS
YES Prop 4: Allow Public Financing for Fair Elections
Elections should be won, not bought. Wealthy donors and special interests continue to dominate election campaign spending. Prop 4 would lift the ban on public funding for state and local election campaigns (except in charter cities and counties), allowing governments to create public campaign financing programs. Prop 4 would allow local governments the option to create systems that help candidates rely less on wealthy donors and public interests. Money in politics sways our elections. This measure would make it possible for more localities to pass innovative public financing programs such as Democracy Dollars in Oakland, which sought to equip eligible voters with vouchers to contribute to campaigns of their choosing—encouraging candidates to engage ordinary voters for their support, including working class communities who may not have been able to support campaigns in the past. Vote Yes on Prop 4.
NO Prop 39: Suppress Voting Rights (Make it Harder to Vote)
Trump and his billionaire allies want to silence the vote in California by making it harder to vote. Prop 39 creates significant barriers to voting by prohibiting voting by mail or voting in person without disclosing or presenting a government-issued identification number. Voter suppression tactics like requiring government-issued IDs at the polls or on mail-in ballots create unnecessary barriers to engage in our democracy. These tactics disproportionately dissuade voters who are low-income, disabled, or in rural areas because they may not have access to, or have difficulties updating government-issued IDs. Implementing this type of voter suppression would waste hundreds of millions of dollars. New hurdles to voting, like requiring you to write your personal ID number on your ballot, would make it easier to steal your identity and harder to protect your privacy. Vote No on Prop 39.
YES Prop 40: Establish a One-time 5% Billionaire Tax
Federal cuts will strip $100 billion from healthcare in California over the next five years—resulting in higher premiums and loss of coverage for millions of Californians. Services at local hospitals, clinics, and nursing homes will face draconian cuts or close. To stop the healthcare collapse in the state, Prop 40 would impose a one-time tax of up to 5% on taxpayers with covered assets over $1 billion, generating $100 billion in revenue over 5 years. Ninety percent (90%) of the funds would go to healthcare, and 10% to food assistance or education. Vote Yes on Prop 40.
NO Prop 41 & 42: Block the Billionaire Tax & Ban on Future Billionaire Taxes
In response to the Prop 40 Billionaire Tax, Big Tech billionaires are funding efforts to block Prop 40 and ban future wealth taxes. Prop 41 requires audits on new spending, but goes beyond oversight by creating structural barriers to future voter-approved revenue measures. Prop 42 blocks new state taxes on personal property, including business interests, intellectual property, and financial assets—restricting California’s ability to ask the wealthiest individuals to contribute more toward public investments. The combination of Prop 41 and Prop 42 would make it significantly more difficult to design and implement progressive revenue solutions to fund schools, healthcare, housing, and other public priorities. Vote No on Prop 41 & 42.
NO Prop 43: Make it Harder to Fund Local Services
Currently, local funding measures for fire stations, libraries, and health centers pass with a majority vote- 50% plus 1. Under Prop 43, two-thirds of voters would need to approve local funding measures and taxes, allowing one-third of voters to overrule the majority and block funding for essential services. Prop 43 protects corporate special interests by giving them greater power to avoid paying their fair share: they would only need one-third of the vote to block efforts to raise new revenue. In practice, Prop 43 would make it nearly impossible to raise local revenue. With upcoming federal budget cuts, state structural deficits, and local jurisdictions facing budget shortfalls, we need all the tools in our toolbox to solve the crisis that everyday Californians are facing. Vote No on Prop 43.
LOCAL PRIORITY BALLOT MEASURES ANALYSIS
MULTI-COUNTY: ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA
Yes on Measure RTM: Reinvest in Regional Public Transportation
Many in the Bay Area depend on public transit to get to work, school, medical appointments, community events, and more. Without significant investments in public transit—AC Transit, MUNI, BART—our region’s traffic gridlock and commute times will balloon. After decades of underinvestment, public transit agencies in the Bay Area are facing severe financial crises. Measure RTM would enact a half-cent sales tax in Alameda, Contra Costa, Santa Clara, and San Mateo counties, and a 1-cent sales tax in San Francisco, for 14 years—providing $1B a year in new funding. Without this funding, public transit services would be cut dramatically: MUNI would cut services by at least 30%, AC Transit would reduce service by 16%, and BART would close 15 stations and cut service by 70%. An historic alliance of labor, business, and transit advocates coalesced to put this measure on the ballot after enabling legislation, CA Senate Bill 63 (Wiener, Arreguin), passed in 2025. An investment in public transit is an investment in a thriving economy, clearer air, and a more affordable region. Vote Yes on Measure RTM.
BERKELEY, ALAMEDA COUNTY
Yes on Measure Z: Generate Seed Funding for Public Banks
Under traditional banking practices, private, for-profit entities owned by investors loan money for projects at high interest rates. In contrast, public banks are owned by government institutions and can use taxpayer dollars to finance local projects such as affordable housing, clean energy, and other investments. Measure Z in Berkeley would charge a temporary parcel tax of 6 cents per square foot of residential improvements, or 9 cents per square foot of commercial improvements, for six years, generating $9.2 million per year. Public banks loan to local institutions like community banks and credit unions, and stipulate how the funds are used. Several cities are pursuing public banks following state legislation passed in 2020 that outlines the process for localities to create them. If passed, Berkeley would be the first public bank in California. Vote Yes on Measure Z in Berkeley.
OAKLAND, ALAMEDA COUNTY
Yes on Measure EE: Make City Hall Accountable to Oaklanders
Currently, the City of Oakland operates under a “hybrid” system of government, where, too often, the blame for inaction leads to finger-pointing between the City Council and the Mayor. Measure EE is a charter amendment that clarifies the Mayor and City Council’s responsibilities, powers, and accountability structures. Under Measure EE, the Mayor serves as the Chief Executive Officer in Oakland, giving them veto power over legislation and line items in the budget. The city council can override a Mayoral veto with a supermajority, providing checks and balances between the legislative and executive branches of government. Measure EE was drafted after an extensive community process, co-facilitated by the League of Women Voters. Vote Yes on Measure EE.
SAN PABLO, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
Yes on Measure S: Stabilize Rents and Protect Against Unjust Evictions.
All across the Bay Area, rents are rising faster than wages, and seniors, students, and families are uprooted in search of more affordable housing—endangering the stability and safety of our neighborhoods. Studies show that a $100 increase in median rent is associated with a 9% increase in an area’s homelessness rate. Measure S would create fair protections for renters in San Pablo by capping annual rent increases at 3%, protecting renters from unjust evictions, keeping families in their homes, and reducing homelessness. Under Measure S, nearly 391 mobile home residents, including many seniors, could receive protection against rent hikes that force them out of their homes and spaces. Exemptions apply to most newly constructed housing, and funding for administering rent control and rent protections comes from fees on landlords, similar to other cities. Landlords will still be able to make reasonable annual rent increases and seek fair rent adjustments when necessary. Vote Yes on Measure S in San Pablo.
SAN FRANCISCO
Yes on Prop B: Authorize creation of public bank
Our tax dollars are currently invested in and make money for big, private banks and their private shareholders, instead of the people of San Francisco. Banks currently invest our public dollars in harmful industries like fossil fuels, tobacco, the military, and weapons manufacturing. Commercial banks continue to deny our communities loans, support, and capital based on what we look like or where we come from. Prop B changes the San Francisco charter to authorize the creation of a Municipal Finance Corporation and Public Bank. A public bank would benefit San Franciscans by creating low-interest loans for city infrastructure and affordable housing, commercial loans through credit unions and community banks, and loans to drive community revitalization. Vote Yes on Prop B in San Francisco.
No on Prop D, E, F: Make Qualifying a Ballot Measure Harder, Strengthen Mayoral Power
Three propositions in San Francisco would dismantle our democratic processes and concentrate power in the hands of the Mayor and the conservative majority on the Board of Supervisors. All three measures are funded by a venture capitalist and a Trump megadonor. Prop D would make it harder for voters to have their voices heard by increasing the number of signatures a measure needs to reach the ballot. Ballot measures are an important way for the public to make direct change in our city and to tell the Board of Supervisors what we, as the public, want them to get done. Prop E slashes the authority and community oversight provided by the city’s commissions and replaces it with more Deputy Mayors in a bloated executive branch of government. Prop F gives the Mayor more powers vis-à-vis the Board of Supervisors by raising the threshold for Board approval and amendments of contracts, increasing the Mayor’s authority over contracts, and extending the City Administrator’s term from 5 to 10 years. Vote No on Prop D, E, and F in San Francisco.
Yes on Prop H: Stronger Muni Transit Operations
San Francisco’s public transit system is facing a once-in-a-generation funding crisis. After years of pandemic disruption and lost revenue, Muni is confronting a $307 million annual deficit—a shortfall so large it rivals the combined budgets of the city’s parks and library systems. Resulting cuts to Muni would worsen SF’s congestion and gridlock, which is already ranked the 3rd-worst in any major US city. Muni would cut service on 20 bus routes, canceling certain routes and doubling wait times. The Stronger Muni for All/Measure H would establish a tiered parcel tax on commercial and residential properties. Under the proposal, 95% of single-family residences would pay a flat $129 annually, with larger homes subject to progressively higher rates. The largest commercial properties would pay up to $400,000 annually, ensuring the biggest properties contribute the most. Vote Yes on Prop H in San Francisco.
Yes on Prop I: Ensure Luxury Real Estate Tax is Spent on Affordable Housing
San Francisco faces an affordable housing crisis that is displacing thousands of people from the city. In , San Francisco voters approved a transfer tax on high-value real estate transactions, with the expectation that these funds would support affordable housing and housing stability. Instead, these funds have been used for a variety of purposes because they currently go into the General Fund. Measure I dedicates an existing, voter-approved tax to fund permanently affordable housing and preventing displacement. Funds would be used to build new, permanently affordable housing, preserve and acquire existing housing, and provide tenant protections, eviction defense, and homelessness prevention. Vote Yes on Prop I in San Francisco.
REDWOOD CITY, SAN MATEO COUNTY
Yes on Measure E: Stabilize Rents and Protect Against Unjust Evictions
Half of Redwood City residents, including over 70% of Latino and Black households, are renters who pay an average of almost $4,000 for a 2-bedroom home. At the same time, 87% of multi-family rental units in Redwood City are owned by corporations and real estate trusts rather than small landlords. Measure E would strengthen protections for renters, including rent stabilization capped at 5% per year, with exemptions for single-family homes, condos, and all new units built since 1995. This measure would also strengthen just cause for eviction by requiring landlords to provide one of a list of approved reasons before evicting a tenant. The measure ensures healthy living conditions with the right for tenants to return after renovations, and safeguards against harassment of tenants by prohibiting the mistreatment and intimidation of tenants. The oversight and implementation of the measure includes community education, legal services, data collection, and support for tenants and landlords through the petition and hearings process. Vote Yes on Measure E in Redwood City.
Paid for by Bay Rising Ballot Action Committee Sponsored by Center for Empowered Politics
Share
Exploring Oakland’s Key Races: What You Need to Know
Not in Oakland? Put your address below to get your customized voter guide, learn more about our voter guide here: No on the anti-democratic Recall of…
How We Strengthen Democracy From the Ground up
“When it comes to having a say over who represents us, most of us Bay Area residents want similar things. No matter what we look like or where we come…
Vote Nikki Fortunato Bas for Supervisor!
Bay Rising Action is thrilled to announce our endorsement of Nikki Fortunato Bas for Alameda County Supervisor! Look out for her on the prim…
Bay Area’s Young Voters Are Registering At Lower Rates. Organizers Are Combating This Ahead Of 2024 Election
Local News Matters/ The 2020 presidential election produced some of the highest turnout of young voters and voters of color. Alex Lal…
“We don’t pick ourselves” to run: An interview with Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao
In , Oakland Rising Action interviewed newly elected Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao. Thao’s commitment to social justice and equity has been…
Pattern Error: href not set.