Go to Content
[Planned Parenthood Votes] Donate
Elect Reproductive Freedom Champions
Now, more than ever, we need champions who will fight to protect and expand reproductive freedom, including abortion and gender-affirming care.
Statewide Office Endorsements
Check out the Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California's endorsements in statewide races.
Statewide Endorsements
State Office Endorsements
Damon Connolly
State Senate District 2
Chris Rogers
State Assembly District 2
Cecilia Aguiar-Curry
State Assembly District 4
Lori Wilson
State Assembly District 11
Buffy Wicks
State Assembly District 14
Anamarie Ávila Farías
State Assembly District 15
Rebecca Bauer-Kahan
State Assembly District 16
Matt Haney
State Assembly District 17
Catherine Stefani
State Assembly District 19
Butte County
Shelby Hebert
Chico City Council District 2
Addison Winslow
Chico City Council District 4
Megan Thomas Petty
Chico City Council District 6
Contra Costa County
Tamisha Torres-Walker
Antioch City Council District 1
Monica Wilson
Antioch City Council District 4
Maria Bagley
Concord City Council District 1
Marisol Rubio
San Ramon City Council District 4
Cherise Khaund
Walnut Creek City Council
Brendan Moran
Walnut Creek City Council
Humboldt County
Kim Bergel
Eureka Mayor
Victor Garcia
Eureka City Council Ward 1
G. Mario Fernandez
Eureka City Council Ward 3
Lake County
Carlos Ramos
Clearlake City Council
Marin County
Eli Hill
San Rafael City Council District 2
Mendocino County
Buffey Bourassa
District 3 County Supervisor
Mari Rodin
Ukiah City Council
Napa County
Mary Luros
Napa City Council District 3
Solano County
Michael Silva
District 4 County Supervisor
JR Matulac
Vallejo City Council District 2
Brianna Rogers
Vallejo City Council District 4
Rebekah Truemper
Vallejo City Council District 5
Sonoma County
Joanna Paun
District 2 County Supervisor
Melanie Bagby
District 4 County Supervisor
Melanie Jones-Carter
Santa Rosa City Council District 4
San Francisco Endorsements
Check out the Action Fund's endorsements in San Francisco.
San Francisco Endorsements
Paid for by VOTE Planned Parenthood Northern California, a project of Planned Parenthood Northern California Action Fund. Top Funder: Mary Guibert. Not authorized by a candidate or a committee controlled by a candidate.
This page is controlled and operated by Planned Parenthood Northern California Action Fund.
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings. By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use. For more information, see our Privacy Notice. Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice, Terms of Use, or by viewing your Cookie Settings.
Español
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use.
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All Save settings Allow all