Search...
[Greenbelt Alliance]
Main Menu
[Picture of Cailin Notch]
Cailin Notch
Vote Yes on Measure L To Better Prepare Alameda for Earthquakes, Floods, and Aging Infrastructure
Alameda, Alameda County, Voter Guide
Greenbelt Alliance is proud to endorse Measure L in the city of Alameda. The Safer Alameda Act (Measure L) would open up new funding to prepare for flooding, earthquakes, and aging infrastructure. If approved, this $300 million local bond measure would provide a dedicated funding source to address critical infrastructure needs. These bond dollars would address identified infrastructure needs, including preventing flooding on city streets, addressing sea level rise, and supporting public safety response for emergencies.
Why It Matters
When it comes to protecting people and places, prevention is the best strategy. That’s why we must fund climate resilience now while we still have time to adapt.
Vote YES on Measure L for a safer and more climate-resilient Alameda!
Advancing Resilience in Alameda
Greenbelt Alliance is knee-deep in the work of helping Alameda County communities take action and prepare for the growing threats of sea level rise.
Since 2023, we’ve been working with the City of Alameda—and leaders such as Resilience Manager Danielle Mieler—to lead community engagement across Alameda and Oakland. We lead the community partner team of the Oakland-Alameda Adaptation Committee (OAAC) and related efforts to coordinate shoreline adaptation across city boundaries, center frontline communities, and ensure that adaptation investments reduce, not deepen, existing inequities. This includes community-led engagement, shoreline tours during King Tides, and planning for nature-based and hybrid solutions that protect both people and ecosystems.
Learn more about our work on climate adaptation to sea level rise and floods here.
The 2025 Hidden Hero of the Greenbelt awardee, Danielle Mieler, also explains more about the work she is leading to plan for resilience in the region. Learn more by watching her testimonial.
Share this post
[Picture of Cailin Notch]
Cailin Notch
MORE POSTS
KEEP READING
Related Posts
Vote NO on Measure D to Reject Voter Approval for Parking Plaza Development Los Altos
This November, Los Altos voters should reject Measure D, which would institute citywide votes to approve any changes to parking places. Read more.
Read More »
Nate Huntington
Vote NO on Measure P to Protect Affordable Housing in Menlo Park
To protect affordable housing in Menlo Park, Greenbelt Alliance urges voters to say NO on Measure P, the Downtown Parking Plazas Ordinance. Read more.
Read More »
Jordan Grimes
Vote Yes on Measure L to Protect Cupertino’s Parks and Open Space for Good
Protecting open spaces is protecting climate resilience. Vote YES on Measure L to protect parks in Cupertino. Read more.
Read More »
Victorina Arvelo
Scroll to Top