Search...
[Greenbelt Alliance]
Main Menu
[Picture of Cailin Notch]
Cailin Notch
Vote Yes on Measure O To Modernize Zoning and Unlock Housing in Albany
Alameda County, Voter Guide
Measure O would modernize Albany’s zoning process, support housing availability, and restore transparent citywide decision-making.
In 1978, Measure D created a special requirement for zoning changes in Albany’s Residential Single-Family (R-1) areas: before the City Council could act, at least 50% of resident voters within 300 feet of a proposed change had to sign a verified petition. After nearly five decades, this outdated rule makes it harder for Albany to respond fairly and effectively to today’s housing needs.
Measure O allows the City Council to consider future updates through the same processes to apply across Albany (such as public hearings and environmental review when required).
Measure O also brings the City into compliance with its 2023-2031 Housing Element, which commits the City to pursue repeal of Measure D’s neighborhood petition requirement. Greenbelt Alliance joins other partners in supporting this measure, including the League of Women Voters of Berkeley, Albany, and Emeryville.
Why It Matters
As an organization that advocates for climate SMART development and sensible land-use policies, we are excited to endorse Measure O.
Decisions about citywide housing policy should be made through a standardized, public process, not controlled by a narrow petition requirement limited to voters living within 300 feet of a project. Measure O is a good governance measure and a sensible approach to land use that expands participation and supports equitable housing opportunities.
Vote YES on Measure O for a fair, modern, and accountable zoning process that helps Albany plan responsibly for housing today and in the future.
Share this post
[Picture of Cailin Notch]
Cailin Notch
MORE POSTS
KEEP READING
Related Posts
Vote NO on Measure D to Reject Voter Approval for Parking Plaza Development Los Altos
This November, Los Altos voters should reject Measure D, which would institute citywide votes to approve any changes to parking places. Read more.
Read More »
Nate Huntington
Vote NO on Measure P to Protect Affordable Housing in Menlo Park
To protect affordable housing in Menlo Park, Greenbelt Alliance urges voters to say NO on Measure P, the Downtown Parking Plazas Ordinance. Read more.
Read More »
Jordan Grimes
Vote Yes on Measure L to Protect Cupertino’s Parks and Open Space for Good
Protecting open spaces is protecting climate resilience. Vote YES on Measure L to protect parks in Cupertino. Read more.
Read More »
Victorina Arvelo
Scroll to Top