DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
[Bay Area Reporter]
Home
Opinion
Editorial
Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board
by BAR Editorial Board
Share this Post:
[facebook sharing button]
[twitter sharing button]
[email sharing button]
[sharethis sharing button]
[pinterest sharing button]
Students walked by the library on the City College of San Francisco campus.
Photo: Rick Gerharter
City College of San Francisco will see three new faces on its board of trustees following the elections, as none of the incumbents opted to run again. There are five out candidates among the eight seeking a four-year term. While all of the quintet would be good additions to the college board, we’re recommending three candidates who are running as a slate.
College board candidate Elijah Ball. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Elijah Ball
Elijah Ball is a gay Latine man who has worked as a campus planner for various community college districts. He stated in his Bay Area Reporter candidate questionnaire that this experience “has taught me how closely enrollment, academic programs, facilities, and finances are all connected.” That is the case at City College, where student enrollment has not recovered post the COVID pandemic. “It has also taught me how to bring administrators, faculty, classified professionals, students, community members, and technical experts together around a shared plan,” he explained.
Earlier this year, City College closed its Downtown Center campus at Fourth and Mission streets. Since the college district owns the building, candidates were asked about ideas they have for new tenants. Ball stated that he opposes selling the campus. “My priority would be finding tenants that bring students back to the eight-story building while keeping the space flexible enough to return to academic use later.” He also pointed out that temporary pop-ups could be sought to utilize the vacant kitchen space.
On increasing City College’s enrollment – one of the biggest issues facing the district – Ball stated that he supports the strategic enrollment management plan that includes expanding the San Francisco Unified School District’s dual enrollment program. Right now, City College serves about 19,000 students, including just over 9,000 full-time equivalent students. Ball would also like to see the district reach out to student parents, full-time workers, immigrants, older adults, and career-changers through more evening, weekend, online, and hybrid classes with predictable schedules and short-term certificates. “Growing enrollment also means keeping the students we already have,” he noted. “Many Asian and Latinx students are enrolled in noncredit programs, especially [English as a second language], so I’d push for multilingual counseling that makes clear the path from ESL to workforce programs and credit coursework.”
City College’s budget has long been an issue, and Ball stated that the good news is the city of San Francisco’s $6.5 million commitment to the Free City program was restored during budget negotiations this year. The program offers free tuition to all San Francisco residents. “City College has experienced a significant long-term decline, but its current budget projections assume enrollment will grow by 2% each year,” Ball stated. “Before making cuts, the board needs to compare these assumptions with actual enrollment and clearly explain the size of the structural deficit.”
Overall, we’re impressed with Ball and think his background will be an asset to the college board.
College board candidate Monroe Lace. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Monroe Lace
A teacher in San Francisco public schools, Monroe Lace is a transgender woman who stated in her endorsement questionnaire that she understands what students need to succeed. “I work directly with the students City College serves and the programs City College provides,” she stated. “I have seen firsthand how a strong partnership between City College and K-12 schools can change a student’s life.”
Lace noted that the college district faces serious financial, enrollment, and governance challenges. “Addressing these challenges will require a practical plan,” she stated. “We must return to the basics: balance the budget, increase enrollment, and put student success first.”
She stated that City College facilities, such as the Downtown Center, should serve as civic assets. She pointed to the college’s Diego Rivera Performing Arts Education Center and stated it should be available for use by public schools and local arts groups.
On the enrollment issue, Lace wants to expand career technical education, or CTE, offerings at City College. “For example, San Francisco currently has no public programs in cosmetology, barbering, esthetics, or manicuring,” she noted. “As a licensed cosmetologist whose livelihood was changed by trade school, I know these programs can provide a direct path to employment. CCSF’s CTE graduates see an average 44% wage increase. I would support an implementation plan to expand CTE programs.”
Lace added that she would be a fiscal watchdog on the board, but also a fiscal watchdog for programs that serve the needs of City College students. Funding for queer studies programs in the district have long been an issue because of its financial crises. For Lace, that means evaluating academic programs through two questions: Does the program improve student success? Does the program meet a student's needs?
Lace could be the first transgender person elected to public office in San Francisco should she win. But beyond that, we see her as a qualified candidate who would bring an important perspective to the board – that of public education – and use her knowledge to potentially see gains in City College’s enrollment.
College board candidate Erwin Tam. Photo Courtesy the candidate
Erwin Tam
Erwin Tam is a gay man who is a former City College student. Both of his parents were also City College students, he wrote in his endorsement questionnaire. For 25 years, Tam has worked as a municipal financial adviser, including with over 30 California community colleges, on financing plans. That alone would be of benefit to the City College board.
Tam stated that while City College’s total tentative budget was $592 million, that number includes $230 million of expenditures from taxpayer-funded bond funds restricted for capital improvements. “I would be focused on CCSF’s unrestricted general fund, which amounts to about $204 million of expenditures for Fiscal Year 2026-27,” he explained. “There is a structural deficit ... increasing $8 million annually, resulting in an estimated annual deficit of $25 million in three years’ time.”
He would ask the chancellor and vice chancellor of finance and administration to expand the multi-year projections from three years to five in order to allow for adequate planning.
Tam noted that even in 2016, the Downtown Center building was rated in poor condition with outdated facilities, according to the Facilities Master Plan. “The floors also lack flexibility to be reconfigured,” he noted. “Only the first two floors were renovated in the 2010s. This may limit potential tenant options and even if revenue was generated, there are potential tax implications with private tenants.” He favors exploring short-term uses so that a possible retrofit can be evaluated in the next master plan due by 2030.
Regarding increasing enrollment, Tam also supports strengthening the SFUSD to CCSF dual enrollment pipeline.
Overall, Tam has financial skills that would be beneficial to the college district. He has our endorsement.
College board Trustee Ruth Ferguson. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
City College unexpired term
Ruth Ferguson
Ruth Ferguson, a straight ally, was appointed by Mayor Daniel Lurie in January to fill the seat of former trustee Alan Wong, whom Lurie named the new District 4 supervisor. Ferguson is the only candidate for this seat, and we endorse her to serve out the term through 2028.
A community college graduate, Ferguson previously ran for the college board in 2024 but came up short.
“I’m running to retain my seat on the board to keep City College accessible and affordable for everyone,” she stated in her endorsement questionnaire.
Since joining the board, Ferguson stated she’s fought to restore funding for Free City, voted for a balanced budget, and has spent these past months listening to students, faculty, and staff. On the queer studies program, Ferguson pointed out the Catch-22 inherent in the system.
“The threat to these programs is rarely a vote to eliminate them, but rather impacts that stem from scheduling cuts as enrollments minimally grow at the college,” she wrote. “When the district applies a uniform enrollment floor to cancel sections, small departments lose sections first, which shrinks the schedule, which lowers enrollment, which triggers cancellations. It’s a policy choice that hurts our most vulnerable student population. I will keep pushing for cancellation and class-size decisions to be evaluated at the program level with an equity impact analysis attached. Not applied section by section as if every department were the same size.”
Never miss a story! Keep up to date on the latest news, arts, politics, entertainment, and nightlife.
Support California's largest LGBTQ newsroom. Your one-time, monthly, or annual contribution advocates for LGBTQ communities. Amplify a trusted voice providing news, information, and cultural coverage to all members of our community, regardless of their ability to pay. Donate today!
Around The Web
[Sponsored]
Makeup Industry Hates This Doctor: His 60-Second Dark Spot 'DIY' is Genius
Health Wellness Fitting
Neurologists Beg Seniors With Neuropathy: Stop Doing This Now
Health Weekly
Plastic Surgeons: The 1 Vitamin You Need if You Have Wrinkled Skin
Wellness Insider
You'll Never Guess Which Common Item Helps Stop Your Dog's Itching & Scratching
Pets Daily Health
Spinal Stenosis Isn't an Age Problem - The Real Cause May Surprise You
SmoothSpine
23 Cool Gadgets Selling out This Month
Consumer Trail
Load More
TOP