Editorial: B.A.R. endorses SF, regional measures
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
[Bay Area Reporter]
Home
Opinion
Editorial
Editorial: B.A.R. endorses SF, regional measures
by BAR Editorial Board
Share this Post:
[facebook sharing button]
[twitter sharing button]
[email sharing button]
[sharethis sharing button]
[pinterest sharing button]
San Francisco voters will decide on a number of issues in the election.
Photo: Cynthia Laird
San Francisco voters will decide on 10 local ballot propositions, plus a regional sales tax measure to fund public transit. The Bay Area Reporter’s recommendations are below.
Proposition A: Charter Changes Affecting Various City Departments and Commissions. YES. The city’s charter - i.e. governing document - is in need of a redo, and Prop A is a start. It’s a follow-up to the commission streamlining task force that was the result of Prop E’s passage in 2024. Earlier this year, the Board of Supervisors did approve changes to city boards and commissions. But only voters can approve changes to the city charter, hence, Prop A.
Prop A renames some commissions and deletes obsolete language, among other things. It would require that the commission streamlining task force convene every 10 years, without the existing requirements that the budget and legislative analyst prepare a report and the city attorney draft a charter amendment implementing the task force’s recommendations.
It would also provide for the Board of Supervisors to approve settlements or dismissals of legal proceedings recommended by the city attorney by resolution, which only requires one board vote, rather than an ordinance, which requires two.
These are just a few of the proposed changes, but the result would be a city charter that is more efficient and less bloated.
Vote YES on Prop A.
Proposition B: Establishing a Municipal Finance Corporation and a Public Bank. NO. It’s important to recognize that Prop B will not establish a public bank. It creates a municipal finance corporation, the first step to a possible city bank, after several years. Prop B provides no funding. And while proponents claim a public bank would unlock funds for affordable housing and small business lending, San Francisco already has tools to support those through existing programs. Prasad Krishnamurthy, a professor at UC Berkeley School of Law, pointed this out in a recent op-ed in the San Francisco Chronicle. As Krishnamurthy noted, San Francisco already has the Housing Trust Fund, which was formed to create, acquire, and rehabilitate housing units for low- and moderate-income families. The city can also issue municipal bonds, which it regularly does, where affordable housing developers can get access to financing at below-market interest rates, as Krishnamurthy pointed out.
In short, we don’t see a need for a public bank with its encompassing bureaucratic infrastructure in San Francisco right now. The city has set up enough programs that offer similar services. Vote NO on Prop B.
Proposition C: Contributions to Housing Fund. YES. Speaking of the Housing Trust Fund, voters can renew this important program through 2058 and increase the annual funding for affordable housing to $125 million. Proponents noted that Prop C does not raise taxes. It reallocates money the city already collects and is fiscally responsible by design. The proponents’ ballot statement noted that the amount of money allocated to the trust only grows when the city’s own property tax or general fund revenue increases.
Prop C has the support of Mayor Daniel Lurie, a majority of the Board of Supervisors, and labor organizations. It is the city’s most significant fund for affordable housing. Vote YES on Prop C.
Proposition D: Changes to Ballot Measure Process. YES. Prop D is one of three reform measures that Lurie is taking to the voters. This one raises the signature threshold for registered voters to qualify local ballot initiatives. It also eliminates the ability of the mayor or four or more supervisors to place a measure on the ballot without a vote of the Board of Supervisors. Currently, the mayor can submit a ballot measure without a board vote.
The supervisors could still place measures on the ballot with a six-member majority vote.
For citizen voter initiatives, San Francisco would raise the percentage of required valid signatures to 8% of registered voters in the city, or approximately 42,500 voters, up from a low 2% now. While opponents claim this increase is out of reach, we think it would result in a decrease of frivolous measures on the ballot. The additional signature requirement could also make the Board of Supervisors actually address myriad issues, as they should, rather than risk responsibility by taking a stand and instead moving the issue on the ballot via a citizen initiative, leaving the decision to voters.
Prop D would allow proponents of a signature initiative to withdraw it from the ballot up to 102 days before an election. This is important because, in 2022, a poorly-worded initiative that would have purportedly taxed Amazon but would have also taxed small businesses could have been on the ballot had a judge not ordered it removed.
This is a common-sense reform measure. Vote YES on Prop D.
Proposition E: City Administrator’s Authority and Changes to City Contracting. YES. According to the voter guide, the measure would give the city administrator exclusive authority to propose ordinances to the Board of Supervisors governing most aspects of procurement. Procurement ordinances proposed by the city administrator would pass unless the board or the mayor rejects them within 60 days. The board could not amend these ordinances.
The measure would raise the threshold for board approval of contracts and amendments to those contracts, the voter guide stated. For revenue-generating contracts and leases, the threshold would increase from $1 million to $4.5 million. For expenditure contracts, the threshold would increase from $10 million to $25 million.
Lurie has stated Prop E is needed to stop corrupt dealmaking whereby department heads run their own contracting schemes. Prop E would also slash waste in city spending, the mayor noted, and provide stronger checks and balances.
On the whole, Prop E is a good start. We share concerns that the measure puts a lot of power into the hands of the unelected city administrator, whose term would increase to 10 years from the current five. And we’re uneasy because the controller’s office recently issued a report noting that the city eliminated two of the ethics commission’s three senior compliance officers as part of the fiscal year 2025-26 and fiscal year 2026-27 budgets. This likely will impact the level of Form 700 compliance that elected officials, department heads, and others must complete.
However, on balance, the city’s contracting system is in need of fixing.
Vote YES on Prop E.
Proposition F: Changes to Executive Branch Management. NO. This ballot measure is also championed by Lurie. However, we can’t support it, and believe it is a mayoral power grab.
Chiefly, Prop F would allow the mayor to reorganize executive branch departments that exist under the Charter, with certain exceptions, according to the voter guide. The mayor could transfer powers and duties set forth in the charter, consolidate one or more departments together under a single department head, and assign the oversight of transferred functions to a different commission.
The proposed measure would expand the mayor’s authority to hire certain department heads without board or commission involvement, and would authorize the mayor to fire most department heads without board or commission involvement, the voter guide stated.
Prop F would also authorize appointing authorities to remove their appointees to most boards and commissions without cause, according to the ballot language.
Prop F would also allow the mayor to hire deputy mayors, pegged by the controller’s office at an estimated annual cost of $250,000 each, when voters in 1991 decided the city did not need deputy mayors.
The mayor already has power over city departments. Since Lurie became mayor, he has been able to appoint the heads of the Department of Public Health, the Fire Department, the Police Department, the Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing, the Recreation and Park Department, the Arts and Culture department, and the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. These department heads presumably meet with the mayor and/or his chief of staff regularly. We see no need to add another bureaucratic level with the deployment of deputy mayors.
If the mayor wants to reorganize departments, there should be a public process for that. Unfortunately, that mechanism is missing from Prop F. We think oversight by the Board of Supervisors and the various city commissions provide critical checks and balances in city government. Vote NO on Prop F.
Kids enjoyed a play structure at Sunset Dunes park. Photo: Jack Persons with Friends of Sunset Dunes
Ordinances
Ordinances need a 50% plus 1 affirmative vote for passage.
Proposition G: Allowing Private Vehicles on the Great Highway in Sunset Dunes Park. NO. We urged a no vote on 2024’s Prop K, which closed a portion of the Great Highway from Sloat Boulevard to Lincoln Way to vehicle traffic and created the oceanside Sunset Dunes Park. Voters passed the initiative, however, and the park was created, to the delight of the thousands of people who now use it. While many residents in the Sunset have been critical of the road closure – and overwhelmingly voted against Prop K two years ago – we don’t see the need to relitigate this issue. The park is there; the city controller’s office estimates it would cost millions of dollars to remove it and reconstruct the roadway, along with an annual cost of about $1.4 million. Then, there’s the issue of the effects of climate change. Sea level rise and erosion are already a threat that will eventually overwhelm the roadway, as well as the cost to constantly remove sand from it. Environmental groups that pushed for Prop K’s passage are opposed to Prop G.
Sunset Dunes is the city’s third most popular park, drawing two million visits in its first year, according to Friends of Sunset Dunes, which opposes Prop G. Residents and visitors alike enjoy walking, jogging, bicycling, and other recreation. Sunset Dunes has proved us wrong, and we’re fine with that. Keep the park. Vote NO on Prop G.
A Muni bus made a stop on Market Street at Van Ness Avenue. Photo: Cynthia Laird
Proposition H: Parcel Tax to Fund Public Muni Operations. YES. Reliable public transportation is critical as San Francisco continues its economic recovery post COVID. Prop H would impose an annual tax on parcels of real property in San Francisco beginning on , and continuing until . The tax would be adjusted annually for inflation.
There are various tax amounts depending on parcel sizes, whether they’re residential or non-residential, mixed-use, or parcels with no buildings.
Owners of rent-controlled residential units could pass through up to 50% of the tax to their tenants, capped at $65 per unit, if the initial base rent was set before . Most properties owned by a person who is at least 65 years old would either be exempt from the tax or entitled to a tax reduction, the voter guide stated.
Prop H only funds Muni service, and San Franciscans are aware that the agency is facing severe fiscal challenges. (See the Regional Transit Measure below.)
This measure has the support of Lurie, all 11 supervisors, organized labor, and the San Francisco Tenants Union.
A reliable Muni will help San Francisco workers and residents, as well as visitors who bring in tourist dollars. Vote YES on Prop H.
Proposition I: Changes to Real Property Transfer Tax. YES. This measure, dubbed the Affordable Housing Guarantee Act, is not a new tax. In 2020, voters passed a different Prop I, which was a tax on the sale of properties worth more than $10 million, specifically so that the money could fund affordable housing and rent relief, proponents noted in the voter guide. That worked for about two years, until city leaders decided to designate the revenue for the general fund, and the money did not go toward affordable housing. This Prop I changes that, and specifies that the tax revenue be earmarked for affordable housing, including social housing. Prop I also cuts the transfer tax for new construction.
Lurie is opposed to Prop I, calling it an “unaccountable slush fund.” But it’s more likely the mayor would rather have the money in the general fund in this time of budget deficits. The reality, however, is that San Francisco needs more affordable housing, and Prop I is one way to help fund that.
Prop I probably wouldn’t even be on the ballot if city officials had followed the intent of the original Prop I. Vote YES on Prop I.
Proposition J: Removal of Foreclosure Exemption for Real Property Transfer Tax. YES. Lurie and a majority of the Board of Supervisors support Prop J, which proponents argue would end an unfair tax break for corporate lenders. Written by Lurie and District 5 Supervisor Bilal Mahmood, Prop J would raise between $100 million and $150 million for the city’s general fund. It keeps the tax break for homeowners and small residential buildings, but makes sure that corporate lenders can’t take advantage of this tax relief that has always been meant for struggling San Francisco families, the proponents stated in the voter guide.
Vote YES on Prop J.
A BART train made a stop at the 12th Street Oakland City Center station. Photo: Cynthia Laird
Regional measure
This regional measure needs a 50% plus 1 affirmative vote for passage.
RTM: Regional Transit Measure. YES. This measure was authorized through state legislation by gay state Senator Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco) and Senator Jesse Arreguín (D-Berkeley) and then saw citizens submit the required number of valid signatures to place it on the ballot. Residents in Alameda, Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara counties will vote on whether to raise sales taxes for 14 years to fund public transportation. Without this funding, the future of Bay Area public transit would be catastrophic, with significant service cuts in store for BART, AC Transit, Muni, and Caltrain. (Muni also needs the revenue from Prop H, above.)
The financial problems transit agencies find themselves in is related to the COVID pandemic that started in 2020. Initially, federal subsidies helped the agencies, but that emergency funding runs out in fiscal year 2027. At the same time, riders have not returned to public transit in the numbers seen prior to the pandemic. While ridership has ticked upward recently – perhaps due in part to higher gas prices because of President Donald Trump’s war in Iran – they are not at the levels seen in 2019 and previous years.
This week, a new study from public policy organization SPUR and engineering and infrastructure consulting firm Jacobs found that the potential transit service cuts facing the Bay Area could have dramatic consequences for drivers and transit riders. Major highway bottlenecks, including peak hour delays of more than double on the Bay Bridge and Highway 101, and triple in the Caldecott Tunnel, are among other gridlock predictions.
But the outcomes extend beyond traffic. The study estimates $3,280 in additional transportation costs for displaced riders, $476 million annually in lost productivity across the region, 184,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, and 430,000 people would lose direct station access.
In terms of service cuts, the study found BART service cuts of up to 70%, ending service at , up to 15 station closures, and elimination of two lines. For Muni, the study found at least 20 bus routes would be eliminated and service reductions of 30% or more, with regular service ending at Caltrain would see hourly train service, no weekend service, and weekday shutdowns at , according to the study. AC Transit would see service cuts of at least 16%, the study stated.
It is imperative that voters across the five Bay Area counties pass RTM. The regional economy depends on people being able to use public transit to get to work, school, and other activities. And even if one doesn’t use public transit, they will be adversely affected if RTM doesn’t pass.
“Whether you ride transit or not, no one will be spared the dire impacts from the dramatic service cuts that will occur if we fail to pass the Regional Transit Measure,” stated Libby Schaaf, the former Oakland mayor who is now president and CEO of the Bay Area Council.
Vote YES on the Regional Transit Measure.
Around The Web
[Sponsored]
You'll Never Guess Which Common Item Helps Stop Your Dog's Itching & Scratching
Pets Daily Health
Neurologists Beg Seniors With Neuropathy: Stop Doing This Now
Health Weekly
Neuropathy is Not From Damaged Nerves in Your Feet. Meet The Real Enemy
SmoothSpine
Spinal Stenosis Isn't an Age Problem - The Real Cause May Surprise You
SmoothSpine
Who Has The Cheapest Car Insurance in Iowa?(check Zip Code)
AllDirectQuote
The Christmas Countdown That Feels Like a Little Adventure
Glosrity
Load More
Related Stories
[Editorial: B.A.R. endorses city council candidates]
Editorial: B.A.R. endorses city council candidates
[Editorial: SF school board recommendations]
Editorial: SF school board recommendations
[Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board]
Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board
[Editorial: CA statewide recommendations]
Editorial: CA statewide recommendations
TOP