DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
[Bay Area Reporter]
Home
Editorial: B.A.R. recommends CA props
by BAR Editorial Board
Share this Post:
[facebook sharing button]
[twitter sharing button]
[email sharing button]
[sharethis sharing button]
[pinterest sharing button]
California voters will weigh in on 14 ballot propositions.
Photo: Courtesy CA State Parks
California voters will decide on 14 state propositions on the ballot. These range from bonds for affordable housing to the contentious onetime tax on billionaires. Below are the Bay Area Reporter’s recommendations.
Proposition 1: Authorizes Bonds for Housing Affordability Programs. YES. This legislative statute authorizes $11.25 billion in state general obligation bonds for housing affordability programs, including for California veterans, according to the official voter guide. The funds would be allocated for building and rehabilitating rental housing ($5.1 billion); acquiring and preserving affordable housing ($2.1 billion); state-funded mortgages for California veterans ($1.25 billion); homeownership and downpayment assistance ($1.1 billion); and housing for farmworkers, American Indian tribes, and students ($1 billion).
Bonds are a common way for the state to fund home building, the voter guide noted.
No ballot argument against Prop 1 was submitted. Vote YES on Prop 1.
Proposition 2: Increases State’s Rainy Day Fund. YES. This legislative constitutional amendment would increase the state’s Rainy Day Fund, which was approved by voters in 2014, by providing funding for education, healthcare, public safety, and other essential services, the voter guide stated. Prop 2 doubles the reserve cap from 10% to 20% of general fund revenues, requiring savings until the fund’s balance equals 20% of the general fund. This is prudent, given today’s economic uncertainties. The state has seen its economy go from a $100 billion surplus to a $50 billion deficit within a few years. Proponents also noted that it will force lawmakers to budget smarter and bank more of any windfalls rather than commit to ongoing spending that can’t be sustained. Vote YES on Prop 2.
Proposition 3: Provides Permanent Funding for Schools and Healthcare by Extending Existing Tax on High Incomes. YES. This initiative constitutional amendment would make permanent the existing 2012 voter-approved tax rates for high-income Californians, currently set to expire in 2031. The voter guide noted that the income tax is the state’s largest tax and pays for most spending from the general fund. The tax applies to most types of income. Voters in 2016 approved extending the higher rates until 2030. Prop 3 makes those higher income tax rates permanent instead of letting them expire. It would bring in between $5 billion and $15 billion each year. Vote YES on Prop 3.
Proposition 4: Repeals Prohibition Against Public Funding of Election Campaigns. YES. This legislative statute allows state and local governments to establish public campaign financing programs for candidates who agree to specified spending limits and meet eligibility criteria. The Political Reform Act bans the use of public funds for political candidates’ campaigns, though it does not apply to city office elections in certain chartered cities, including San Francisco, Oakland, and Los Angeles, according to the voter guide. The Fair Political Practices Commission would issue guidance on the programs. We think public financing is a good tool for qualified candidates, as we have seen in San Francisco elections. Vote YES on Prop 4.
Proposition 5: Changes Recall Election Process for Statewide Officers. YES. This legislative constitutional amendment makes common sense reforms to the process of recalling statewide elected officials. As we saw during the 2021 gubernatorial recall election, 46 candidates ran to replace Governor Gavin Newsom in the event voters recalled him, as the ballot asked a second question of who should replace the governor. Newsom prevailed, but that special election brought to the fore the state’s outdated recall process. Under Prop 5, that second question of who should replace a recalled official is removed. This means that if a governor were to be recalled, the lieutenant governor would become governor for the remainder of the term or until a successor is elected. For all other recalled officers, the office will remain vacant until filled by a subsequent special election or appointment as specified in existing law. The state’s recall process should protect democracy, as proponents argue, not be set up so that an official could be recalled by a narrow majority and the person replacing them could win with far less than 50% of the vote. This is an easy one. Vote YES on Prop 5.
Proposition 37: Creates Loan Program for Middle-Income Buyers of Qualified New Homes. YES. This is an initiative statute that authorizes up to $25 billion in revenue bonds to offer eligible buyers fixed-rate mortgages for up to 17% of the purchase price of a “qualified new home” (new construction or first sale of converted nonresidential property, priced below about $1 million to $1.5 million, depending on county, adjusted annually). There are also other eligibility requirements.
Bonds are a way that governments borrow money. In this case, the revenue bonds would use the repayments from homebuyers to repay the bonds, so it would not result in direct state or local costs. We think this is yet another option for homebuyers. Vote YES on Prop 37.
Proposition 38: Authorizes Bonds for Immunology Medical Research. NO. This initiative statute authorizes $8.4 billion in state general obligation bonds for immunology and immunotherapy research, with half dedicated to cancer, heart disease, and Alzheimer’s disease. While this sounds good on paper, it’s been reported that included in that is $4 billion for one unnamed institute, which is reported to be the California Institute for Immunology & Immunotherapy. This new institute was founded by the billionaires backing Prop 38: surgeon Gary Michelson, businessman Meyer Luskin, and Michael Milken, the former “junk bond king” who was pardoned by President Donald Trump in his first term after he pleaded guilty to securities and reporting violations.
We support science, but Prop 38 is not the way to do it. Gay state Senator Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco) authored Senate Bill 895, which Newsom signed last week. SB 895 puts a $7.5 billion science and health research bond before voters in . That’s the better route. Vote NO on Prop 38.
Proposition 39: Prohibits Citizens from Voting Unless They Present Government-Issued Identification. NO. This initiative constitutional amendment is the brainchild of gay MAGA state Assemblymember Carl DeMaio (R-San Diego) and his Reform California political movement. Prop 39 feeds right into Trump’s baseless lies about voter fraud and adds new hurdles, including that voters would have to disclose personal information on their ballot envelopes if casting ballots by mail.
California elections are already secure and safe. Ultimately, Prop 39 would make it harder for Golden State voters to cast ballots. Vote NO on Prop 39.
Proposition 40: Imposes One-Time Tax on Certain Taxpayers. NO. This initiative constitutional amendment and statute has garnered support from many who are fed up with the wealthy not paying their fair share in taxes. But Prop 40 is not the answer. It would impose a one-time tax of up to 5% on certain taxpayers with covered assets valued over $1 billion, according to the voter guide. Proponents claim that 90% of the revenue would go toward healthcare, but this is a one-time tax, meaning that in the years following, the state would find itself in the position it’s in now: high healthcare costs that impact access to care for so many Californians.
We’re skeptical that the revenue will come in as expected; rather, it likely will cost the state $25 billion in lost revenue as companies and wealthy residents leave the state, as opponents argued. Some billionaires have already left, meaning they won’t pay any state taxes at all. In short, this is a poorly-designed measure that will damage the state’s economy. Vote NO on Prop 40.
Proposition 41: Prohibits New State Taxes that Exclude Revenues from State Spending Limit. Requires Audits for New State Special Taxes. NO. This initiative constitutional amendment is a “poison pill” for Prop 40, in that if Prop 41 receives more votes than Prop 40, then Prop 40 could be stopped even if it receives a majority of votes, according to the legislative analyst. Not surprisingly, the Prop 41 campaign is funded by billionaires. Vote NO on Prop 41.
Proposition 42: Prohibits New State Personal Property Taxes and Certain Retroactive State Taxes. NO. This is another initiative constitutional amendment that would undo Prop 40. Opponents noted that it, too, is funded by billionaires. If Prop 42 receives more votes than Prop 40, then Prop 40 could be stopped from becoming law even if it receives a majority of votes, according to the legislative analyst. Vote NO on Prop 42.
Proposition 43: Limits Voters’ Ability to Raise Revenues for Local Government Services. NO. This is a legislative constitutional amendment that would make it harder to fund services like first responders and roadway improvements. That’s because Prop 43 would limit voters’ ability to pass voter-proposed local special taxes by requiring a two-thirds majority for passage. Currently, local governments must get approval from two-thirds of voters to impose, extend, or increase special taxes, but those placed on the ballot by voter signature gathering only need a majority (over 50%). In this post-Prop 13 world, sometimes local tax increases are necessary, and voters in San Francisco have shown they are willing to pay for important services for those placed on the ballot by signature. The lower threshold for passage of these measures should be retained. Vote NO on Prop 43.
Proposition 44: Requires Community Health Clinics Spend 90% of Revenue on Program Services. NO. This initiative statute would make it extremely difficult for local health clinics to maintain their operations. Many of these clinics serve vulnerable populations and could be undone by restrictions. Doctors’ groups oppose Prop 44, warning that it restricts clinics from spending resources on things like mammogram, X-ray, and CT machines, and expanding or upgrading clinics. Jodi Hicks, president and CEO of Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California, warned that Prop 44 threatens women’s access to healthcare at a time when it’s already under attack. Vote NO on Prop 44.
Proposition 45: Modifies Environmental Review for Certain Projects. NO. This initiative statute would gut the California Environmental Quality Act to expedite review for specified project categories, including housing, transportation, water, health, wildfire mitigation, internet access, and clean energy projects. Opponents point out that it creates a loophole for projects such as data centers, pipelines, and others. While the state does need more housing, laws enacted in recent years already allow for speedier approvals. Prop 45 would weaken critical protections for air and water quality protection. It is opposed by organized labor, nurses, and both the Harvey Milk and Alice B. Toklas LGBTQ Democratic clubs. Vote NO on Prop 45.
Never miss a story! Keep up to date on the latest news, arts, politics, entertainment, and nightlife.
Support California's largest LGBTQ newsroom. Your one-time, monthly, or annual contribution advocates for LGBTQ communities. Amplify a trusted voice providing news, information, and cultural coverage to all members of our community, regardless of their ability to pay. Donate today!
Around The Web
[Sponsored]
Leave Some Honey out for Your Dog Overnight, Here’s What Happens
Pets Daily Health
How to Beat Spinal Stenosis: The Hidden Cause Most Doctors Miss
SmoothSpine
Neuropathy is Not From Damaged Nerves in Your Feet. Meet The Real Enemy
SmoothSpine
A Teaspoon on an Empty Stomach Burns All Parasites Extremely Fast!
Paratoxil
Forget About Constipation! Drink This And Run To The Toilet!
Native Fiber
New SS Changes Announced in Virginia
The Consumer Guide
Load More
Related Stories
[Editorial: The B.A.R. makes its SF supervisor choices]
Editorial: The B.A.R. makes its SF supervisor choices
[Editorial: B.A.R. endorses SF, regional measures]
Editorial: B.A.R. endorses SF, regional measures
[Editorial: B.A.R. endorses city council candidates]
Editorial: B.A.R. endorses city council candidates
[Editorial: SF school board recommendations]
Editorial: SF school board recommendations
[Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board]
Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board
TOP