Editorial: The B.A.R. makes its SF supervisor choices
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
[Bay Area Reporter]
Home
Opinion
Editorial
Editorial: The B.A.R. makes its SF supervisor choices
by BAR Editorial Board
Share this Post:
[facebook sharing button]
[twitter sharing button]
[email sharing button]
[sharethis sharing button]
[pinterest sharing button]
Gary McCoy, left, and Michael Trung Nguyen are the Bay Area Reporter’s first and second choices, respectively, in the race for District 8 supervisor.
Photos: Courtesy the candidates
San Francisco residents living in even numbered Districts 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 will vote for supervisor . District 8, which includes the Castro, will see a new representative elected as Rafael Mandelman, a gay man currently serving as board president, is termed out of office. District 10, centered in Bayview-Hunters Point, will also choose a new member of the board as Supervisor Shamann Walton is termed out. Incumbents are running for reelection against challengers in Districts 2, 4, and 6. Below are the Bay Area Reporter’s recommendations.
District 8: Gary McCoy, first choice
Michael Trung Nguyen, second choice
The B.A.R.’s first choice for the District 8 supervisor seat is Gary McCoy, a gay man who is HIV-positive and is in recovery from addiction. In his candidate questionnaire and a virtual editorial board meeting, McCoy demonstrated he has the experience and policy chops to represent District 8, which includes the Castro, Noe Valley, Twin Peaks, Glen Park, and other neighborhoods.
McCoy previously served as political director for Congressmember Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco), and is on leave from running her national Save Our Health Care campaign. Pelosi has endorsed McCoy, as have former D8 supervisors Jeff Sheehy and Mark Leno, who made a dual endorsement in the race.
One of the things that stood out to us in talking to McCoy is his dedication to constituent services. He noted that he got his start in politics by volunteering in gay then-supervisor Scott Wiener’s City Hall office and did similar work for Pelosi. Responding to constituents’ concerns is a big part of being a supervisor.
On the issue of commercial vacancies in the Castro, McCoy wants to cut red tape and put teeth into the city’s vacancy tax program by looking at and addressing current loopholes in the system.
On housing, McCoy has mentioned using eminent domain, which is a cumbersome and expensive process that gave us pause when we first heard about it, mostly because it’s rarely used, and was used to disastrous results in the Western Addition and Fillmore decades ago. But during the interview, McCoy was more realistic.
“It is certainly something I plan to use as leverage,” he said.
McCoy acknowledged that new housing would not be subject to rent control, unless it’s an accessory dwelling unit on property that is already rent controlled. Instead, the projects McCoy is talking about would largely be 100% affordable, he said, or a mix of affordable and market rate units.
“My housing plan is based on the current housing legislation we have available to us, you know, at the state [level],” said McCoy. “It's based on the current family zoning plan as it was passed.” He added that he supports Mayor Daniel Lurie’s family zoning plan, “as long as it was not on the backs of our longtime workers, tenants, people that live in rent-controlled units, our aging and older adult populations.”
On Flock Safety cameras, McCoy recently unveiled his platform that calls for introducing legislation to end the city’s contract within his first 90 days in office; it would direct the San Francisco Police Department not to renew its contract with Flock. “SFPD says Flock solves crimes. I will request a public accounting of every District 8 investigation in which Flock data was material to an arrest or charge, so that we can get a meaningful sense of how [automatic license plate reader] data is actually being used to solve crimes,” McCoy stated on his campaign website.
“It's not the cameras in general that I have an issue with. It's the way that Flock model operates right now, the fact that they have such long retention rates for their data and information. The fact that there have been a lot of unauthorized people (who) have been accessing it, accessing it unauthorized. You know, to the tune of over 1.6 million times. So my issue with Flock is that,” McCoy told us, referring to unauthorized access publicized in cases across the country.
In his interview, McCoy came back to the importance of serving district residents.
“And so I intend to have a solid plan that's around those basics, around the bread and butter issues in terms of constituent services, neighborhood vibrancy, and all of that,” he said. “And we'll be very responsive on that.”
San Francisco uses ranked-choice voting for city races, so we’re also endorsing Michael Trung Nguyen as our second choice in District 8. Nguyen impressed us with his commitment to social housing. While he did not support Lurie’s family zoning plan, Nguyen, who’s a patent attorney, said he would follow the law or pass new legislation. A longtime city resident, Nguyen knows his way around city processes. One of his priorities would be to negotiate strong benefits for the community when dealing with developers on projects.
Nguyen supports full staffing for SFPD, but stated in his candidate questionnaire that “staffing isn’t the whole conversation.” Real public safety, he stated, includes well-lit, active commercial corridors, the co-responder and street crisis response models handling mental health and substance use calls, and neighborhood investment.
Nguyen told us that he would take bold stances when it comes to finding solutions to various issues. “That’s the kind of energy I bring,” he said.
McCoy and Nguyen are both strong candidates, and we endorse them in that order for District 8 supervisor.
Supervisor Matt Dorsey. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
District 6: Matt Dorsey
Supervisor Matt Dorsey, a gay man, is running to retain his seat on the board. District 6 includes portions of Hayes Valley, Civic Center and Mid-Market, along with South of Market, South Beach, Mission Bay, Rincon Hill, Treasure Island, and Yerba Buena Island. First appointed in , Dorsey ran that fall and won a full term. This will be his last term on the board. Currently the board’s only openly HIV-positive member, Dorsey is also the only current member to acknowledge his history with substance use disorder.
Dorsey has devoted substantial efforts on recovery-oriented drug policy. “My lived experience in recovery from addiction has shaped an outcomes-focused approach to my work on public health and drug policy that is starting to make a difference citywide,” he wrote in his B.A.R. questionnaire. One of the most significant is his drug-free supportive housing law to “finally deliver long-overdue drug-free alternatives to mandatory drug-tolerant permanent supportive housing models for those exiting homelessness.” While some advocates are critical of his approach, we believe all types of supportive housing models play an important role in the city’s efforts to combat substance use disorders and homelessness.
In September, Dorsey introduced his Sober Spaces Program and Fund, that if passed will assure low- or no-cost access to city-owned community spaces for abstinence-based recovery meetings, 365 days a year citywide, and provides grants and workforce support to help community-based sober spaces, such as the Castro Country Club in the city’s LGBTQ neighborhood.
Dorsey is aligned with Mayor Daniel Lurie’s public safety goals and continues to call for a fully-staffed San Francisco Police Department. (Before he was appointed to the board, Dorsey served as a spokesperson for SFPD and the city attorney’s office.)
Dorsey stated that he will continue to fight to backfill federal cuts to HIV/AIDS programs.
He has interesting ideas for the old San Francisco Centre mall, and stated he will hold a hearing to explore options to revitalize the Market Street corridor. One idea for the mall that he floated is for a “Mall of Justice” in one of the two buildings SF Centre now occupies, where state courts and public safety offices could be housed. The current Hall of Justice has been identified as a serious seismic hazard going back to the administration of former mayor Art Agnos, Dorsey noted. Additionally, relocating criminal courts to the Market Street site could make it easier for people to access, as it would be along a transit corridor as opposed to near a freeway like the Hall of Justice is at present, he stated.
“It’s worth noting that the Emporium side of the San Francisco Center housed the California Supreme Court ,” Dorsey stated. “So, its reactivation as a judicial destination for state courts would bring its historical use full-circle.”
Dorsey supports aggressive up-zoning along transit-rich corridors, though he stated he’d be cautious about eliminating all zoning restrictions and mandates along upper Market Street as a blanket approach.
In District 6, Dorsey has championed historic markers for the Leather & LGBTQ Cultural District and worked to protect the bars, institutions, and small businesses that give SOMA’s queer history ongoing meaning, not just historical significance. He’s worked with District 5 Supervisor Bilal Mahmood regarding the Transgender District, which is largely in D5.
Overall, Dorsey has been effective on the Board of Supervisors. While we were critical of his plan to drastically change the historic equal benefits ordinance, Dorsey has since worked on ways to improve the city’s contracting processes and supports Lurie’s ballot measures.
We endorse Dorsey for reelection.
Theo Ellington. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
District 10: Theo Ellington
We came close to endorsing Theo Ellington eight years ago, and are glad he’s running for this open seat that includes Bayview-Hunters Point, Potrero Hill, Sunnydale, and the surrounding neighborhoods. Ellington, a straight ally, noted in his candidate questionnaire that “LGBTQ+ San Franciscans live on every block in District 10 … .” A former member of the city’s Human Rights Commission, Ellington pointed out that he defended the city’s anti-discrimination and sanctuary city policies when they were under attack. Currently the executive director of the Ruth Williams Bayview Opera House, Ellington touted his work with the Golden State Warriors that delivered Chase Center and “more than 3,000 good-paying jobs with local hiring.”
Ellington stated that if elected, he will fight to fill the roughly 500-officer shortage in SFPD so that foot and bike patrols can return to commercial corridors such as the Castro in D8 and Third Street in D10. “Full staffing, community policing, violence prevention for the young people most at risk, and oversight that cannot be fired for doing its job,” he wrote. “That is the vision we need, and I will vote for budgets that deliver it.”
As for backfilling federal cuts to HIV/AIDS services, Ellington stated that he supports it. He also supports revitalizing downtown, and noted it matters to D10 residents because they “ride the transit and work the jobs that a living downtown funds.”
On housing, Ellington supports upzoning on transit corridors. For middle-income housing, his plan is to see the approximately 20,000 approved homes be built along the waterfront in D10; streamline permitting “and put a shot clock on approvals. Pull every cost lever from fees to locally built modular construction; use density so land cost spreads across more homes; and expand the certificate of preference with down-payment help, so families this city displaced once before have a path to own here.”
Overall, we think Ellington would be a good supervisor. He was born and raised in the Bayview, and counts himself a strong ally to the LGBTQ community. We endorse Ellington for D10 supervisor.
Supervisor Alan Wong. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
District 4: Alan Wong
We endorsed District 4 Supervisor Alan Wong, a straight ally, this spring. Wong was on the ballot in June to complete the term of former supervisor Joel Engardio, a gay man who was recalled in 2025. Wong decisively won that race, and we continue to support him, though we disagree with his support for Proposition G, which would reopen a portion of the Great Highway to vehicles on weekdays. But Wong is listening to his constituents, and that’s a priority for a district supervisor.
We recommend Wong in District 4.
Supervisor Stephen Sherrill. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
District 2: Stephen Sherrill
We endorsed District 2 Supervisor Stephen Sherrill, a straight ally, this spring, as he, too, was on the June ballot to complete the term of former supervisor Catherine Stefani, who was elected to the state Assembly. Sherrill easily won that race and is now seeking a full term.
Sherrill wrote in his B.A.R. questionnaire earlier this year that he’s focused on the basics: safe streets, clean neighborhoods, thriving small businesses, and city services that actually work. “That approach matters for LGBTQ residents across San Francisco,” he stated.
We continue to recommend Sherrill in District 2.
Around The Web
[Sponsored]
Neurologists Beg Seniors With Neuropathy: Stop Doing This Now
Health Weekly
Spinal Stenosis Isn't an Age Problem — The Real Cause May Surprise You
SmoothSpine
Neuropathy is Not From Damaged Nerves in Your Feet. Meet The Real Enemy
SmoothSpine
Leave Some Honey out for Your Dog Overnight, Here’s What Happens
Pets Daily Health
Who Has The Cheapest Car Insurance in California? (Check Zip Code)
Comparisons.org
Want to Attract Hummingbirds? This California Man Has The Answer
Ribili
Load More
Related Stories
[Editorial: B.A.R. endorses SF, regional measures]
Editorial: B.A.R. endorses SF, regional measures
[Editorial: B.A.R. endorses city council candidates]
Editorial: B.A.R. endorses city council candidates
[Editorial: SF school board recommendations]
Editorial: SF school board recommendations
[Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board]
Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board
[Editorial: CA statewide recommendations]
Editorial: CA statewide recommendations
TOP