DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
[Bay Area Reporter]
Home
Opinion
Editorial
Editorial: CA statewide recommendations
by BAR Editorial Board
Share this Post:
[facebook sharing button]
[twitter sharing button]
[email sharing button]
[sharethis sharing button]
[pinterest sharing button]
In the June primary, four of our endorsed candidates for statewide office failed to advance to the general election. With the exception of the governor’s race, which we will address soon, here are our recommendations for the other three statewide races.
Lieutenant governor candidate Fiona Ma. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Lieutenant governor
Fiona Ma
Former San Francisco supervisor, assemblymember, and current state Treasurer Fiona Ma, a Democrat termed out of the treasurer’s office, is the clear choice, although we have some reservations. Those stem from a lawsuit accusing her of climbing into bed with a female staffer while sharing a hotel room. In 2024, the state paid $350,000 to settle the lawsuit. At the time, Ma claimed she was trying to save the state money; we’d advise her not to repeat this practice.
But compared to the other candidate in the race, Democrat-turned-Republican state Senator Gloria Romero (East Los Angeles), Ma is the better candidate. Romero has long focused on education matters but is against trans female athletes. Ma, on the other hand, has long championed marriage equality and fought against conversion therapy, noted statewide LGBTQ rights group Equality California, which has endorsed her. Just this week, as a member of a state financing committee, Ma voted to provide financing to a San Francisco affordable housing project that is geared toward LGBTQ seniors.
Ma’s campaign did not return our endorsement questionnaire earlier this year, but given the stark choice, we recommend her for lieutenant governor. The lieutenant governor's main duty is to be in charge when the governor is out of state. But the lieutenant governor also sits on a number of important bodies, such as the University of California Board of Regents and the boards of the California State University and state community college systems. The position rotates with the state controller on the State Lands Commission, which is critical given the Trump administration’s efforts to interfere in public lands issues here.
Ma, a certified public accountant, has been an effective state treasurer. We think she has the experience to be a good lieutenant governor.
Treasurer candidate Eleni Kounalakis. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
State treasurer
Eleni Kounalakis
Termed-out current Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis, a Democrat and straight ally, is running for Ma’s elected position of state treasurer. A former U.S. ambassador to Hungary during the Obama administration, Kounalakis has been a longtime ally to the LGBTQ community.
The treasurer is the state’s lead asset manager, banker, and investment officer. Kounalakis has an MBA and the business background to perform the duties. In her roles as chair of the State Lands Commission and a voting member on the UC Board of Regents and California State University Board of Trustees, she has helped oversee billions in public assets. Her leadership has focused on responsible investment in education, climate resilience, and infrastructure, according to her campaign website.
Kounalakis also did not return our endorsement questionnaire, which is the main reason we did not recommend her in the primary. Her opponent is Jennifer Hawks, a Bay Area Republican Party activist who wants to rein in spending by state Democrats, according to media reports. We know what that means: targeting the safety net that the state has established for its most vulnerable residents.
We recommend Kounalakis for state treasurer.
Superintendent of public instruction candidate Richard Barrera. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
State superintendent of public instruction
Richard Barrera
During our primary endorsements, we came close to backing Richard Barrera; we favor him in the general election. Barrera, a Democrat and a leader in the California Department of Education, also served for more than a decade on the San Diego Unified School Board. A straight ally, Barrera did complete our endorsement questionnaire and noted his commitment to equity and civil rights in public schools.
“I oppose policies that would prohibit transgender students from participating on school sports teams consistent with their gender identity,” he wrote, “and I believe California law protecting transgender students must be upheld. More broadly, I believe LGBTQ students deserve the same thing every student deserves: safe schools, equal treatment, and the chance to participate fully in school life.”
Should Barrera win in November, he will face a changed state education system. In July, Governor Gavin Newsom signed Assembly Bill 181 that enacted a proposal he made in his State of the State address. It unifies the policy-making State Board of Education with the Department of Education, now run by the state superintendent, and will implement those policies by establishing a new appointed education commissioner under the board to assume management of the education department. The bill will have the state superintendent of public instruction serve as an independent statewide voice for students, families, and educators across the public school system from TK through higher education, according to Newsom’s office.
The state Department of Education will be restructured and no longer run by the superintendent by 2027. The next governor will appoint the new education commissioner, subject to consent by the state Senate, according to the legislation. The superintendent will serve as an independent advocate for schools, although they will have a seat on the state Board of Education. And they will gain a seat on the community college board. The state superintendent already serves on the UC and Cal State boards, and that will continue.
According to media reports, Barrera and his opponent, Republican Sonja Shaw of Chino Hills, both opposed AB 181. It remains to be seen if the new restructuring results in more efficiency and better outcomes for students.
Shaw, however, would be a terrible choice for state superintendent. She has led anti-trans efforts on the Chino Valley Unified School Board and, in fact, that’s her priority on her campaign website. Shaw, in her role at the time as school board president, is the one who ordered the removal of current state superintendent Tony Thurmond from a school board meeting three years ago when he showed up to speak in support of LGBTQ students.
Despite the looming state Department of Education reorganization, we think Barrera will work to make the most of the changed landscape. Having a progressive voice at the helm is important, no matter the results of restructuring. An advocate for LGBTQ students is needed in top state education posts, and Barrera has shown he understands the issues facing queer and trans students.
We endorse Barrera for state superintendent of public instruction.
Never miss a story! Keep up to date on the latest news, arts, politics, entertainment, and nightlife.
Support California's largest LGBTQ newsroom. Your one-time, monthly, or annual contribution advocates for LGBTQ communities. Amplify a trusted voice providing news, information, and cultural coverage to all members of our community, regardless of their ability to pay. Donate today!
Around The Web
[Sponsored]
The Overlooked Boxed Cereal Now Tied to 8 out of 10 Memory Cases
openridgebrief
You'll Never Guess Which Common Item Eliminates Tartar From a Dog's Teeth
Daily Pets Health
Neurologists Beg Seniors With Neuropathy: Try This Now
Wellness Insider
How to Beat Spinal Stenosis: The Hidden Cause Most Doctors Miss
SmoothSpine
California: Retirees on SS Are Due a Large Surprise This Week
The Consumer Guide
Instantly Relieves Constipation! Drink This and Go to The Toilet Like Clockwork
Native Fiber
Load More
TOP