DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
[Bay Area Reporter]
Home
Opinion
Editorial
Editorial: SF school board recommendations
by BAR Editorial Board
Share this Post:
[facebook sharing button]
[twitter sharing button]
[email sharing button]
[sharethis sharing button]
[pinterest sharing button]
Three commissioners will be elected to the San Francisco Board of Education.
Photo: Cynthia Laird
Voters will elect three commissioners to the San Francisco Board of Education in the election. We endorse the following candidates.
School board President Phil Kim. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Phil Kim
Phil Kim is a gay man who currently serves as board president. Appointed by former mayor London Breed in , Kim won in the June primary election to complete his term through January. Now, he is running for a full four-year term. The Bay Area Reporter endorsed Kim ahead of the June election and we continue to recommend him for a seat. To read our previous editorial, click here.
School board candidate Ryan Hazelton. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Ryan Hazelton
Ryan Hazelton is a gay man who runs after-school programming for children from two San Francisco Unified School District elementary schools. He started a free lunchtime play program at SFUSD’s Leonard Flynn Elementary School after seeing the district’s understaffing recess supervision there, he wrote in his Bay Area Reporter endorsement questionnaire. Currently the executive director of the nonprofit Mariposa Kids, which provides play-based programming for kids age 1-11 in San Francisco, he’s served on various city advisory bodies for children and families. He would be a good addition to the school board.
Hazelton stated that an outcome of the teacher strike in February will be seriously addressing chronic absenteeism, “since a real share of SFUSD’s funding is still tied to attendance rather than enrollment, and actively working to grow overall enrollment rather than just managing its decline.”
Hazelton, who stated that he came out while in high school and was bullied in junior high, stated that protecting Harvey Milk Civil Rights Academy, the elementary school in the LGBTQ Castro district, is important to him. “This school shouldn’t have to keep fighting just to prove it deserves to exist,” he stated. “Enrollment at Harvey Milk Civil Rights Academy is actually improving, driven in part by the expansion of TK there, and that growing appeal should count for something the next time a closure conversation comes around.”
On renaming schools, which was a huge controversy several years ago that led to the recall of three commissioners, Hazelton stated that he would not revive any plan. “As a gay man, I know there is a long list of important LGBTQ people in history who could be honored in this way,” he wrote. “However, I won’t engage in a broad conversation about renaming schools while our enrollment system needs an overhaul, our schools need more resources, and our educators still aren’t being paid correctly or on time.”
We think Hazelton is a solid choice for the school board and recommend him in the race.
School board Commissioner Alida Fisher. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Alida Fisher
Alida Fisher, a straight ally, is seeking reelection to the school board. In her B.A.R. endorsement questionnaire, Fisher stated that during her term, the board balanced a $1.36 billion budget and avoided a state takeover, passed a $790 million facilities bond, secured dependent healthcare benefits for educators, and delivered the district’s first year-over-year gain in third grade reading proficiency since 2018.
Fisher stated that initially, she was a vocal opponent of school closures. And she disagreed with the way the district conducted the 2024 resource alignment initiative, or RAI, process, believing the district violated its own community engagement guardrails. “By not fully and transparently engaging with our school communities, we lost a huge amount of trust and goodwill in the process,” she wrote.
“I now believe we need to have a much more public, honest, and inclusive conversation about portfolio alignment,” she stated. “Let’s be clear: closing schools won’t save money. Rather, aligning our number of schools and facilities with enrollment could allow us to concentrate resources across fewer, better-resourced campuses and improve the quality of learning environments.”
Fisher would not prioritize the Harvey Milk school for closure. It “plays a vital role in the fabric of SFUSD and highlights the value of offering specialized student supports and resources,” she noted, adding that one of the design principles of the process was not to choose schools based on size. The Milk school fits within the guidelines of the Small Schools by Design resolution due to its personalized and individualized focus.
On the budget, Fisher wrote the district “is on track to self-certify a positive first interim budget this December. That means we will have sufficient revenue and reserves to meet our financial obligations not only for the upcoming school year, but for the following two years as well.”
Fisher’s correct that achieving a balanced budget is a major milestone for the district and that the work is not finished. We recommend Fisher for a second term on the school board.
Around The Web
[Sponsored]
You'll Never Guess Which Common Item Helps Stop Your Dog's Itching & Scratching
Pets Daily Health
Neurologists Beg Seniors With Neuropathy: Stop Doing This Now
Health Weekly
Spinal Stenosis Isn't an Age Problem — The Real Cause May Surprise You
SmoothSpine
Neuropathy is Not From Getting Older. Meet The Real Enemy of Neuropathy
SmoothSpine
How to Beat Spinal Stenosis: The Hidden Cause Most Doctors Miss
SmoothSpine
A Teaspoon on an Empty Stomach Burns All Parasites Extremely Fast!
Paratoxil
Load More
Related Stories
[Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board]
Editorial: An LGBTQ slate for City College board
[Editorial: CA statewide recommendations]
Editorial: CA statewide recommendations
TOP