Editorial: B.A.R. endorses city council candidates
click
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
DONATE MEMBER ACCOUNTS
[Bay Area Reporter]
Home
Opinion
Editorial
Editorial: B.A.R. endorses city council candidates
by BAR Editorial Board
Share this Post:
[facebook sharing button]
[twitter sharing button]
[email sharing button]
[sharethis sharing button]
[pinterest sharing button]
Oakland City Hall.
Photo: Cynthia Laird
Residents in Bay Area cities will decide who will represent them at their respective city halls. This year, a number of LGBTQ candidates are either seeking reelection or trying to win election to the legislative bodies in the election. Below are the Bay Area Reporter’s recommendations for some East Bay contested races. We’ll have more soon.
Oakland City Councilmember Charlene Wang. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Oakland City Council
District 2
Charlene Wang
Charlene Wang, a lesbian, won a special election in 2025 to the District 2 seat, which includes Chinatown, Little Saigon, Eastlake, San Antonio, Bella Vista, Trestle Glen, Crocker Highlands, Lakeshore, and Jack London Square. Wang is running for a full four-year term and we endorse her.
In her B.A.R. endorsement questionnaire, she noted that she’s the first out LGBTQ+ woman to represent District 2, which includes the city’s LGBTQ Cultural District.
Wang has been effective on the Oakland City Council. As chair of the Public Safety Committee and Anti-Human Trafficking Task Force, she has shifted the Oakland Police Department’s focus toward sexual exploitation of minors, which “disproportionately harms LGBTQ youth who flee abusive homes or foster care,” she noted.
Data centers for artificial intelligence companies have become a hot-button issue in the Bay Area, as well as nationally. Wang stated that she authored the council’s resolution supporting California Environmental Quality Act, or CEQA, review of advanced manufacturing projects. “I do not support data centers without vetting, environmental reviews, and commitments to the community,” Wang wrote. “Any proposal should protect ratepayers, minimize environmental impacts, and provide enforceable community benefits such as union jobs and housing investment.”
Flock Safety cameras are another big issue in cities. Oakland does use the automated license-plate reader cameras. Wang stated that she authored stronger safeguards, “including eliminating the national-network access that has been how federal agencies have had backdoor access to local data, financial penalties against Flock for any instance of data misuse that does not match up with contract requirements ... and provisions that ban the use of these cameras for the purposes of immigration enforcement or punishing anyone for seeking gender-affirming care or an abortion.”
She is working with Mayor Barbara Lee’s office and OPD to refine the list of 60 law enforcement agencies that have Flock data sharing programs with the police department, “with OPD to be stricken if they have not adopted sanctuary city laws.”
On law enforcement reform, Wang noted, “Oakland’s LGBTQ community has a fraught relationship with law enforcement because of the history and continuing reality of criminalization. Reform requires accountability and trust. At the same time, the Oakland LGBTQ Community Center has requested more police presence after vandalism and hateful acts directed at the cultural district. We need both dependable 911 response and constitutional policing.”
She added that she worked with SPARTA Pride, an organization of transgender servicemembers and veterans, to recruit trans service members dismissed from the military into OPD, helping the department better reflect the community it serves.
Overall, we’ve found Wang to be responsive to her constituents and an LGBTQ voice on the City Council that is important. We endorse her for a full term.
Vallejo City Council candidate Tara Beasley-Stansberry. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Vallejo City Council
District 5
Tara Beasley-Stansberry
Tara Beasley-Stansberry, a lesbian, would continue out representation on the Vallejo City Council, as gay District 5 Councilmember Peter Bregenzer, whom she ran against in 2022, opted not to seek reelection. Since then, Beasley-Stansberry has served on the Vallejo Planning Commission, providing local government experience for the council seat.
She stated in her B.A.R. endorsement questionnaire that she would be open to data centers in the city, but her support would depend on the location, scale, environmental impacts, infrastructure demands, and tangible benefits to the community. “Economic development should not come at the expense of residents, our environment, or the reliability and affordability of essential resources,” she stated.
She would want a thorough review of electricity and water demands before supporting a data center, as well as greenhouse gas and air-quality impacts, noise, traffic, backup power systems, and effects on surrounding neighborhoods and infrastructure. “Data centers commonly rely on backup generation, including diesel generators, which can require additional environmental and air-quality reviews,” Beasley-Stansberry stated.
Key, too, is improvement to Vallejo’s economy, including permanent jobs, construction jobs, local hiring, and tax revenue, she noted.
Vallejo also uses Flock automated license-plate readers. The technology can be a “useful investigative tool for locating stolen vehicles, identifying vehicles connected to serious crimes, and supporting public safety,” Beasley-Stansberry stated. “However, public safety must never become unchecked mass surveillance.”
She has serious concerns “about data privacy, unauthorized access, data sharing, and the potential use of surveillance technology for purposes beyond those originally authorized.” As a councilmember, Beasley-Stansberry would support strict limits on data retention and sharing, documented law-enforcement purposes for every search, regular audits of system access, public reporting, and meaningful oversight by the city’s Surveillance Advisory Board.
Beasley-Stansberry has worked with Vallejo’s senior community, and recognizes the needs of LGBTQ elders. She stated that she’s working with the board of the Florence Douglas Center, a hub for the senior community in the city. One concept the center is examining is a shared-housing model in which homes could be leased and rooms made available as affordable housing for seniors. Any plan would need to comply with applicable requirements, such as fair housing and accessibility, and Beasley-Stansberry stated that she would want any housing initiative developed “to be explicitly welcoming and affirming to LGBTQ+ seniors, with strong nondiscrimination protections and a culture where residents do not feel they have to hide who they are to feel safe.”
We think Beasley-Stansberry would be a good addition to the Vallejo City Council and recommend her for election in District 5.
Concord City Council candidate Robyn Kuslits. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Concord City Council
District 3
Robyn Kuslits
Robyn Kuslits is a queer pansexual transgender woman who would make history if elected to the Concord City Council. More than that, however, Kuslits has some good ideas and would be an asset to the Contra Costa County city as a whole, and its LGBTQ community. Kuslits, who served in the U.S. Navy, also worked at and then helped lead the Rainbow Community Center in Concord. A progressive labor Democrat, Kuslits stated in her B.A.R. endorsement questionnaire that she “will fight for workers and uphold progressive values to create the needed change in government that best serves the community.”
Kuslits does not support new data centers in Concord. “AI data centers have tremendous power requirements and cannot be shut off during periods of peak demand,” she stated. “My community already experiences periodic power blackouts, and they will be furious to be sitting in the dark while a data center keeps humming away.” She also noted that “AI is unregulated and poses a tremendous threat to privacy and the human work force.” Kuslits would need to see “a more robust power grid and greater regulation of AI” to move toward supporting data centers.
Like other cities, Concord uses Flock cameras now, which Kuslits, who holds a juris doctorate degree, believes are “unconstitutional violations of privacy and violate our Fourth Amendment against unreasonable searches.” She stated she would fight to see that the city’s contract with Flock is not renewed.
Kuslits stated that 25% of Concord residents are immigrants, and that most of them live in her district. “Current immigration enforcement puts all of us at risk of profiling and constitutional right violations,” she wrote. “Concord also has the only immigration court in the Bay Area, and we know [President Donald] Trump will be targeting our city. This has caused fear in the immigrant community, and local business is suffering as a result.” She stated that she would push for an ordinance preventing Immigration and Customs Enforcement from utilizing city property for staging its operations. She also wants a partnership between Concord police and community advocates to respond to ICE operations and ensure those affected have resources to know where their loved ones are located, how to communicate with them, and address the trauma associated with losing a loved one.
On the issue of LGBTQ seniors, Kuslits pointed out that the Rainbow center “has a great elder program, and I will fight to secure further funding for this program.” She wants to focus on outreach, training for housing providers, and luncheons to address social isolation. She’s also looking for opportunities in new affordable housing developments to secure units geared toward LGBTQ seniors.
We’re impressed with Kuslits and recommend her for the District 3 seat.
Dublin City Council candidate Steven Lorey. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Dublin City Council
District 2
Steven Lorey
Steven Lorey is a bisexual queer man running for the District 2 seat on the Dublin City Council in Alameda County’s Tri-Valley region. He had a 27-year career serving in the U.S. Army as an infantryman and later as an intelligence professional. If elected, he would return out leadership to the City Council, which ended in 2022 after gay former councilmember Shawn Kumagi’s term concluded.
Lorey is not a fan of data centers in his district or in the city. First, because land is at an incredible premium, he wrote in his B.A.R. endorsement questionnaire. Second, he stated that he’d “need to understand the long-term economic impact of a local data center as well as data supplied by real-world cases that are viewed through an appropriate analytical lens.”
Dublin uses Flock cameras, but Lorey stated that he believes the company “has been misleading and disingenuous with their responses to public criticism and have no faith in the company itself.” That said, he does think there is a place for automated license-plate readers in routine law enforcement. In addition to the safeguards already in place, including a 30-day delete window, Lorey would want immediate retraining of all officers on the capabilities of the system along with the ethical implications of its use. “Secondly, I would want to see a transparent oversight program that includes supervisory review of officers’ access on a monthly basis with an independent, public audit from an outside organization (or a council-appointed committee) on a quarterly basis,” he stated.
Lorey supports building affordable housing on BART property. “Dublin has two BART stations, and both are critical to anyone commuting into the Bay Area from the west,” he wrote. “Affordable housing near those stations could alleviate a lot of long commutes for people as well as get more cars off the road.”
We believe Lorey would be a good addition to the Dublin City Council, and we endorse him in his race.
Tracy Mayor Dan Arriola. Photo: Courtesy the candidate
Tracy Mayor
Dan Arriola
Dan Arriola, a gay man who is running for his second and final term as mayor of Tracy, has our endorsement. He has done a good job during his first term leading the San Joaquin County city on the outskirts of the Bay Area. Tracy elects its mayors for two-year terms.
As we recently reported, Arriola earlier this month welcomed a Sprouts Farmers Market to the city, an anchor tenant of the new Ellis Village Center.
The city is also undergoing rapid growth, as home prices are cheaper. “So many people are priced out of the Bay Area. I am more than happy to welcome them to the city of Tracy,” he said during an interview with reporter Matthew S. Bajko. “But we need to make sure to engage in smart growth and are building the supporting infrastructure along the way.”
Arriola, who was raised in Tracy, said that his biggest accomplishment has been a revamp of its civic leadership. That was an issue two years ago when the City Council, of which the mayor is a voting member, had descended into dysfunction.
“My whole focus has been on getting the city back to functioning. I think we have been successful in doing that,” he said. “A priority focus has been on the local economy.”
Tracy residents would do well to continue under Arriola’s leadership for a second term. We endorse him for reelection.
Never miss a story! Keep up to date on the latest news, arts, politics, entertainment, and nightlife.
Support California's largest LGBTQ newsroom. Your one-time, monthly, or annual contribution advocates for LGBTQ communities. Amplify a trusted voice providing news, information, and cultural coverage to all members of our community, regardless of their ability to pay. Donate today!
Around The Web
[Sponsored]
Neurologists Beg Seniors With Neuropathy: Stop Doing This Now
Health Weekly
Neuropathy is Not From Damaged Nerves in Your Feet. Meet The Real Enemy
SmoothSpine
Living on Less Than $2000 a Month? These 16 Things Could Help
FinanceBuzz
The Gutter Guard Rebate Most Seniors Never Claim
HomeBuddy
How to Beat Spinal Stenosis: The Hidden Cause Most Doctors Miss
SmoothSpine
The Christmas Countdown That Feels Like a Little Adventure
Glosrity
Load More
TOP