Search
JOIN
DONATE
Facebook-f Twitter Instagram
DONATE
Bike the Vote
Help win a more bike-friendly Bay Area this election season.
[text: "election 2026" with multicolor stars above and below, on a background of bicycles and bike wheel silhouettes]
This November’s election will be critical for protecting the future of safe and equitable mobility both here in the Bay Area and across the state.
Researching the issues and voting is very important, but you also have opportunities to shape outcomes by getting involved in volunteer campaign activities now!
Regional Transit Measure State Propositions Local Ballot Measures Candidate Questionnaires & Forums
["Yes on Measure RTM; save transit, reduce traffic"]
Click the image above to visit the campaign page for complete details
The Regional Transit Measure (RTM) is a five-county effort to save public transit in the Bay Area from devastating service cuts and station closures.
Bike East Bay has endorsed this measure along with hundreds of local elected officials, labor and business organizations, as well as non-profits community advocacy groups all asking you to VOTE YES ON MEASURE RTM.
People will be casting their ballots as early as , so your volunteer help is needed now! Here are some resources:
Join Bike East Bay for our phone bank shifts (, and )
Sign up for Measure RTM campaign updates
Have your organization or community group endorse Measure RTM
["biking is political."]
Bike East Bay is opposing two state propositions on the ballot this year, and asking people to vote “no” on each of them:
Proposition 43 (VOTE NO, more info here)
If Prop 43 is passed, a 2/3rds (66.667%) supermajority of voter support will be required to pass any special tax increase vote going to specific expenditures.
It removes the current 50%+1 simple majority threshold option for citizen-led ballot measures. This was used to pass Berkeley’s recent Measure FF paving and traffic safety initiative, but Prop 43 would make most similar efforts impossible in the future.
Proposition 45 (VOTE NO, more info here)
Prop 45 purports to streamline state environmental reviews (CEQA) and speed up project implementation. But its application includes enabling destructive and regressive projects like freeway widenings.
Bike, walk, and transit projects already have categorical CEQA exemptions statewide, so this proposition will not help sustainable transportation.
[photo of a smiling person holding and pointing to a postcard reading "Yes on B1"]
City-specific measures to raise funding for street paving and other infrastructure needs are on the ballot for several East Bay jurisdictions this year.
Berkeley:
Bike East Bay and Walk Bike Berkeley have endorsed Measures U and V, which are about making smart, necessary investments in the city.
["Yes on Y and V - A safe & vibrant Berkeley"]
VOTE YES on Measure U, an infrastructure bond that would help make a meaningful dent in Berkeley’s long list of infrastructure needs.
VOTE YES on Measure V, a half-cent sales tax that would raise up to $10m each year for the city’s essential public safety needs.
Check back here soon for more info on Bike East Bay’s official positions or endorsements.
["2026 Bay Area Transportation Candidate Questionnaire November General Election seamlessbayarea.org/candidate-questionnaire"]
As a 501(c)3 non-profit, Bike East Bay is not allowed to endorse individual candidates. But we can promote and host forums, allowing all candidates an opportunity to answer questions and share their positions on various topics, to help inform your vote.
Reference the calendar below for upcoming events, and check back at this space soon for candidate questionnaires and other resources.
Candidate questionnaires:
2026 Bay Area Transportation Candidate Questionnaire from Seamless Bay Area
Bike East Bay and many more local groups helped source this comprehensive transportation questionnaire with responses from city, state, and federal candidates.
Search by address or city to find questionnaire responses from candidates on your ballot.
Make sure to reference this resource before voting!
Albany City Council candidates transportation questions, from Albany Strollers & Rollers
Alameda Mayor and City Council candidates transportation questions, from Bike Walk Alameda
Upcoming events:
El Cerrito City Council Candidates Forum – (click here for more info)
Past events:
Berkeley City Council District 4 & 7 Candidate Forum – (click here for video recording)
Berkeley City Council District 1 & 8 Candidate Forum – (click here for video recording)
Regional Transit Measure (Measure RTM)
In 1972 Bike East Bay (then the East Bay Bicycle Coalition) was founded with a goal of getting access on the BART system, which initially banned bikes when it first opened.
40 years later we finally won all-hours bicycle access on BART, but also bike access for no additional charge on every other public transit system across the East Bay, including for e-bikes.
Bikes + transit has always been an essential part of our vision for an equitable and sustainable East Bay. But this vision is now under severe threat due to an impending fiscal cliff affecting all the transit providers in our region.
Without Measure RTM’s operations funding, the Bay Area will face a true emergency:
[BART logo]
BART will close 15 stations, shut down two lines, and cut train service by 70%.
[AC Transit logo]
AC Transit will reduce service by 16%
[Caltrain logo]
Caltrain would run only once per hour, end service by on weekdays, and eliminate all weekend service
[Muni logo]
Muni will cut services by at least 30%, cancel at least 20 bus routes, end regular evening service, and cut cable car service.
Transit agency cuts will cause hours of gridlock traffic for drivers.
Cuts will devastate the Bay Area’s economic recovery and climate goals.
Read SPUR's report "Bumper to Bumper" detailing the disasterous impact if the Bay Area fails to pass Measure RTM
A regional transit ballot measure to reimagine and reinvest in A system that serves today's riders and inspires a new generation
[map of the Bay Area showing the 5 Measure RTM counties highlighted]
Includes 5 Bay Area Counties: Alameda, Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara
Half cent sales tax all counties except 1 cent in San Francisco for 14 year duration
‍
Averts catastrophic service cuts for the largest operators, many facing fiscal cliffs: BART, Muni, Caltrain, AC Transit
Funds transit improvements to safety, cleanliness, convenience, and seamless integration of transit services
‍
Provides roughly $1B a year in new funding for transit throughout the Bay Area
Additional funds for capital projects within specific counties: Alameda, Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara
Our public transit connects people to jobs, schools, healthcare, and to one another. It keeps our neighborhoods vibrant, our economy moving, and our climate goals within reach.
Click Here to Volunteer for Measure RTM
Upcoming Events
Stay informed and involved by joining a campaign outreach event or candidate forum!
Additional events will be posted here up until election day on :
1 event found.
Events
Events Search and Views Navigation
Search
Enter Keyword. Search for Events by Keyword.
Find Events
Event Views Navigation
Photo
List
Month
Day
Map
Upcoming Upcoming Select date.
List of events in Photo View
El Cerrito City Council Candidate Forum ["El Cerrito CANDIDATE FORUM EL CERRITO T TREKKERS Mary Ann "MJ" Jawili Forrest Lanning Wally Nowinski Gabe Quinto Kimberly White Carolyn Wysinger"]
El Cerrito City Council Candidate Forum
DONATE
Generic selectors
Exact matches only
Search in title
Search in content
Post Type Selectors
Facebook-f Twitter