AbundantSan Francisco
Ballot Measures
Yes on RTM: Regional Transit Measure
YES
This measure is critical to saving Bay Area public transit – without it we will see catastrophic service cuts at BART, Muni and Caltrain, including entire lines being cut, station closures, and service ending at This would increase congestion, make it more expensive for people to get to work, and hurt our economy. This measure is backed by a broad coalition of business groups, labor organizations, and advocacy organizations. Key to vote yes on BOTH RTM and Prop H (Muni Funding).
[Regional Transit Measure]
Yes on Prop A: Department, Board, Commission, and Advisory Body Updates
Civic participation in government is important but San Francisco has too many commissions and committees that create bottlenecks and unnecessary hearings. By eliminating and consolidating commissions and committees, this measure will improve efficiency while ensuring that residents can still participate in government in a meaningful and impactful way.
[Prop A: Department, Board, Commission, and Advisory Body Updates]
No position on Prop B: Municipal Finance Corporation and Public Bank
NO POSITION
This authorizes the creation of a Municipal Finance Corporation and a city-owned Public Bank. The goal is to finance public priorities such as affordable housing, climate infrastructure, and local small businesses. Importantly, the measure does not establish a public bank – it establishes a mission and governance structure. No funding to capitalize the bank is included. It is unclear if this measure will actually produce anything of consequence.
[Prop B: Municipal Finance Corporation and Public Bank]
Yes on Prop C: Housing Trust Fund
This measure gradually expands the Housing Trust Fund – a general fund set-aside that provides support for affordable housing and housing preservation. Building more affordable housing is a priority for Abundant and this was part of a deal to lower the inclusionary rate for new housing – a key barrier to building new homes.
[Prop C: Housing Trust Fund]
Yes on Prop D: Changes to Ballot Measure Process
This measure eliminates the unilateral ability of the Mayor or four members of the Board of Supervisors to place a measure on the ballot without gaining majority support from the Board. It also raises the signature-gathering threshold for new laws from 2% of voters to 8% of voters. While there are arguments for keeping the status quo in place, we believe that on balance this measure continues to provide access to the ballot for citizen-initiatives in line with other jurisdictions, while also driving the decisions around ballot measures to be more consensus driven.
[Prop D: Changes to Ballot Measure Process]
Yes on Prop E: Extending the City Administrator’s Duties and Changes to City Contracting
This measure strengthens the City Administrator’s Office and consolidates contracting provisions to improve and speed up how the city procures services. San Francisco has made strides in improving its permitting and contracting – expanding on that work is important to build trust with the public and improve outcomes for residents.
[Prop E: Extending the City Administrator’s Duties and Changes to City Contracting]
Yes on Prop F: Changes to Executive Branch Management
This measure gives the Mayor more flexibility to manage the structure of City Departments and to be a more effective administrator. Our charter should set clear values and broad responsibilities, while empowering our leaders to be nimble and responsive to the needs of the city.
[Prop F: Changes to Executive Branch Management]
No on Prop G: Closing Sunset Dunes Park
NO
Sunset Dunes park is already one of the most visited parks on the west coast of the United States. Closing this park would take away an incredible open space for San Francisco residents, seniors, and families. We should be advocating for more parks – not trying to close them down.
[Prop G: Closing Sunset Dunes Park]
Yes on Prop H: Parcel Tax to Fund Public Transit Operations
This measure is a parcel tax that will prevent Muni from having to cut service by 30%, double wait times, eliminate entire bus lines, and end night service. Key to vote yes on BOTH Prop H and RTM (Regional Transit Measure) to save Muni.
[Prop H: Parcel Tax to Fund Public Transit Operations]
No position on Prop I: Changes to Real Property Transfer Tax
There are both positives and negatives to this measure. It dedicates General Fund dollars to affordable housing priorities. It also lowers the transfer tax on new housing construction, which is a pro-housing priority. However, the measure would prevent future Boards of Supervisors from further lowering the transfer tax without going to the ballot. While we want to see the tax reduced, this is the wrong approach. Lowering the transfer tax legislatively should be a top City Hall priority in the coming year.
[Prop I: Changes to Real Property Transfer Tax]
Yes on Prop J: Real Property Transfer Tax Foreclosure Exemption
This measure applies the transfer tax to foreclosed properties, generating new revenue for the city at the cost of potentially increasing prices on the sale of foreclosed properties. This measure was initially presented as a part of a deal to lower the transfer tax to spur the building of new housing – a policy that’s on hold. We believe the transfer tax should be lowered in City Hall along with this measure passing at the ballot.
[Prop J: Real Property Transfer Tax Foreclosure Exemption]
Paid for by Families for a Vibrant SF Sponsored by Abundance Network (555 Montgomery Street, San Francisco 94111). Not authorized by a candidate or committee controlled by a candidate. Financial disclosures are available at sfethics.org.