​
Endorsement of Jackie Elward for Assemblymember in AD-12 by the Indivisible Marin
Steering Committee
The Steering Committee of Indivisible Marin endorses Jackie Elward for Assemblyperson in the
12th district. She has also been endorsed by the current AD-12 Assemblyperson Damon
Connolly, Attorney General Rob Bonta, State Treasurer Fiona Ma, former State Controller Betty
Yee and many other state and local officials, as well as the Sierra Club, various labor unions
and other Democratic and environmental organizations.​
​
In her roles as City Council Member and Mayor of Rohnert Park, Elward has worked to reduce
homelessness, implement regional climate and renewable energy programs, increase affordable
housing, and expand support services for youth, seniors and those experiencing mental health
crises. ​
​
Damon Connolly, who we believe has done an outstanding job as Assembly District 12’s current
Assemblymember, said in endorsing Elward, “Jackie is experienced, principled and effective the type of leader District 12 needs in the Assembly. I look forward to working with her in the
Assembly to see that our communities continue to be well-represented on the issues that matter
most to us.” ​
Elward’s opponent in this race, Eric Lucan, has also made many important positive contributions
in his nearly two decades as a member of Novato’s City Parks and Recreation Commission, as
a three-term City Councilmember in Novato, and as a member of the Marin Board of
Supervisors. During 2026, Lucan has served as President of the Marin Board of Supervisors
and presides over meetings, approves final agendas, and serves as the Board’s presiding
officer throughout the year.​
However, we have concerns about Lucan’s leadership as President of the Marin Board of
Supervisors specifically regarding his response to law enforcement practices in the county. Two
key issues of concern are (1) local law enforcement’s collaboration with ICE, and (2) a proposal
by local law enforcement for Marin to enter into a $1.5 million contract to use an AI system
Peregrine, that can enable local law enforcement to violate the privacy and civil liberties of
law-abiding in residents without due process.​
​
The No ICE In Marin Coalition, of which Indivisible Marin is a member, has led an advocacy
effort for over a year to put a stop to the Sheriff’s collaboration with ICE which is continuing to
terrorize immigrants and separate families in Marin County. ICE has taken away over 50 Marin
residents since Trump took office, with 37 detained and disappeared in 2026 alone.
​
While the Board has taken some modest action - it temporarily withdrew from the notorious
SCAAP program, and in July, formed an ad hoc committee to explore policies that would limit
the county’s cooperating with ICE - the Sheriff continues to publicly release booking logs, which
enable ICE to target individuals for detention and deportation upon release from the Marin
County jail. The Sheriff has committed to assist ICE to the maximum extent allowed by law. This
means helping ICE to identify and detain undocumented immigrants who have never been
convicted of any crime, and immigrants with remote prior convictions who have lived peacefully
in our community for decades but have been arrested for a minor infraction, like unpaid traffic
tickets. ​
​
During the primary, the No ICE in Marin Coalition asked candidates for written responses
regarding their positions on the Sheriff's collaboration practices. Lucan’s responses were not
clearly supportive of the coalition’s proposed changes to current practices. In contrast, Elward’s
responses were 100% supportive. ​
​
In April, the No ICE in Marin Coalition proposed to the Board an ICE-Free Ordinance. Since
then, the Board has failed to adopt, or even put on the agenda, the ICE-Free Ordinance
proposed by the coalition which would significantly reduce action by ICE in our community.
Lucan formed an ad hoc committee to consider the ordinance but no further action has been
taken by the Board. In contrast, related ordinances have been adopted in San Francisco, Santa
Clara, Sonoma, and many other cities and counties throughout the state.
​
We also have concerns about generally supportive comments Lucan made to the Marin
Independent Journal regarding the proposed Peregrine contract which would enable
warrantless AI data surveillance in Marin County. In a article, the IJ described Lucan as
“sanguine” about the contract and quoted him as stating that “the need for better communication
is a byproduct of the county’s multiple law enforcement agencies.” The IJ article reported that
Marin supervisors delayed a decision on whether to approve the contract after Supervisor
Dennis Rodoni expressed concern about the contractor and asked that the item be pulled off the
consent calendar to allow further discussion.
Groups in the No ICE in Marin Coalition, including Indivisible Marin, alerted the Marin public to
the proposed contract and urged residents to contact their supervisors on the matter.
Now various supervisors have indicated that the contract is not currently being considered by
the Board and that it is not on an upcoming Board agenda. It is unclear whether this contract
has been permanently rejected by the Board, or whether consideration of it will take place at a
later date. ​
Lucan is currently endorsed in the Assembly race by Jamie Scardina, Marin County Sheriff;
Eddie Engram, Sonoma County Sheriff; and Robert Doyle, Marin County Sheriff (former).
Political Action Committees (PACs) aligned with California law enforcement and the Marin
County Sheriff’s Office and Sonoma County Sheriff’s Office are major donors to his campaign.
Elward has no endorsements nor donors representing law enforcement.
​
Our concerns regarding Lucan’s tendency to align with local law enforcement on issues related
to civil liberties and immigrant rights have been a major factor in our decision to endorse Elward
who is an outstanding candidate and about whom we have no such concerns.​
​
​
​