Indivisible Marin Steering Committee's California Ballot Endorsements
– All Statewide Propositions
– Judicial Retention Races for the CA Supreme Court and CA Appeals Courts
– Selected Marin County Candidates and Ballot Measures
California Ballot Propositions
Title
IndiMarin Summary
Description from SOS
IndiMarin Steering Key Supporters
Committee
Endorsements
Key Opponents
Prop 1 description from Secretary of State
PROP 1: Authorizes Bonds Supports affordable homes for veterans, seniors, people with
disabilities, low- and middle-income working families, vulnerable
for Housing Affordability
Californians and essential workers—teachers, firefighters and
Programs. Legislative
nurses.
Statute.
YES
US Vets; CA Federation of
None submitted to SOS
Teachers; Self-Help for the
Elderly; Habitat for Humanity CA;
CA Alliance of Child & Family
Services; Gavin Newsom
California Apartment Association
AFL-CIO California
PROP 2: Increases State’s Doubles the state's Rainy Day Fund, stops politicians from
overspending when there is a budget surplus, and ensures
Rainy Day Fund.
education funding continues during economic downturns.
Legislative Constitutional
Amendment.
Prop 2 description from Secretary of State
YES
CA Professional Firefighters; LA
Chamber of Commerce; Gavin
Newsom; Xavier Becerra;
Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel
Makes permanent an already-existing temporary income tax on Prop 3 description from Secretary of State
PROP 3: Provides
high-income earners (an increase that was enacted in 2012)
Permanent Funding for
instead of expiring in 2031. Allocates tax revenues to K–12 and
Schools and Health Care
by Extending Existing Tax community colleges. Allows more General Fund revenues to be
on High Incomes. Initiative used for health care, budget reserves, and other programs.
Constitutional Amendment.
YES
California Teachers Association; California Taxpayers Association;
CA School Nurses Organization; Family Business Association of
California State PTA;
California; California Hispanic
Planned Parenthood Affiliates of Chambers of Commerce
CA;
California Federation of Teachers
California School Employees
Association
PROP 4: Repeals
Prohibition Against Public
Funding of Election
Campaigns. Legislative
Statute.
Lifts ban on state and local governments offering public funding Prop 4 description from Secretary of State
of candidate election campaigns. No mandate, local control.
(Successful models abound across the nation, and in CA charter
cities. Typically $1-6 per taxpayer per election.)
YES
League of Women Voters of CA;
California Nurses Association;
Mental Health Advocacy;
Social Security Works;
Consumer Watchdog;
California Common Cause
California Clean Money
Campaign
ACLU California Action
California Taxpayers Assn;
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Assn;
Family Business Assn of
California;
United Latinos Action
PROP 5: Changes Recall
Election Process for
Statewide Officers.
Legislative Constitutional
Amendment.
Recall elections would no longer include a question about who
should fill the vacancy (generally won with a relatively small
plurality of voters). Instead, vacancies typically would be filled
through special elections or appointments, depending on the
office and timing.
YES
None submitted to SOS
None submitted to SOS
League of Women Voters
California Common Cause
Secretary of State Shirley Weber
Election Integrity Project
California
Prop 5 description from Secretary of State
None submitted to SOS
A new state homebuying assistance program. Funded by state
PROP 37: Creates Loan
Program for Middle-Income bonds that would be paid back by homeowners’ payments on
their home loans.
Buyers of Qualified New
Homes. Initiative Statute.
Prop 37 description from Secretary of State
YES
United Nurses Associations of
None submitted to SOS
California;
California Conference of
Carpenters;
California State Treasurer Fiona
Ma;
Former Senate Majority Leader
Bob Hertzberg
Building a Better California, the
California Association of Realtors
United Brotherhood of Carpenters
and Joiners of America
Western States Regional Council
of Carpenters
A bold, ambitious, "moon shot" program to advance immunology Prop 38 description from Secretary of State
PROP 38: Authorizes
research. Broad benefits include cancer, heart disease
Bonds for Immunology
Medical Research. Initiative Alzheimer's. $8.4 billion in state bonds: half goes to enterpriselevel nonprofit in the UC system, half goes to individual grants.
Statute.
10% of licensing proceeds go back to state to repay bonds and
interest, with ongoing revenue to the state thereafter. 20%
discount for CA residents on tech and drugs that result.
YES
Michael J. Fox Foundation;
Alzheimer’s Los Angeles;
Kidney Cancer Assoc;
American Nurses Assoc\CA;
he ALS Association
The Alzheimer’s Association
Blood Cancer United
Government-issued voter ID requirement. Adds barriers that
PROP 39: Prohibits
Citizens from Voting Unless could block many eligible California voters, expose personal
They Present Government- information to identity theft, costs hundreds of millions of
taxpayer dollars. Unnecessary, since voter fraud is exceedingly
Issued Identification.
rare.
Initiative Constitutional
Amendment.
Prop 39 description from Secretary of State
NO
The Transparency Foundation;
ACLU California Action;
Latino American Political Assn;
Common Cause;
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Assn;
League of Women Voters of
CA Women’s Leadership Assn;
California;
Reform California
California Donor Table
Californians for Voter ID
Republican U.S. Rep. Ken Calvert
A one-time tax on billionaires equal to 5 percent of their wealth, Prop 40 description from Secretary of State
allocated to health care, to replace funding withdrawn by federal
government.
NO
US Senator Bernie Sanders;
SEIU United Healthcare Workers
West;
Teamsters California
AFSCME California
PROP 40: Imposes OneTime Tax on Certain
Taxpayers. Initiative
Constitutional Amendment
and Statute.
Indivisible Marin strongly supports making billionaires and the
ultra-wealthy pay substantially more in taxes. But Proposition
40's one-time, California-only wealth tax is a flawed mechanism.
Extreme wealth is a national problem that calls for a durable
national solution. We support federal reforms such as Senator
Elizabeth Warren's Ultra-Millionaire Tax Act, which would
impose an ongoing progressive tax on fortunes above $50
million and prevent the ultra-wealthy from simply moving
between states to avoid taxation.
Regardless of how you vote on Prop 40, we strongly
recommend voting No on 41 and 42 no matter what. They don't
just undermine Prop 40 itself. They weaken the ability to put any
tax measures on the ballot (41), and prohibit taxing wealth at all
as distinct from income (42).
Robert M Kaplan Ph.D.
League of Women Voters of
California
Gov. Gavin Newsom
Katie Porter - see SF Chron oped
California Primary Care
Association;
California School Boards
Association;
California Taxpayers Association;
California Teachers Association
California Medical Association
Conflicts with Prop 40, and would preempt Prop 40 if it receives Prop 41 description from Secretary of State
PROP 41: Prohibits New
State Taxes That Exclude more votes.
Revenues from State
Spending Limit. Requires Requires one-time audits before special taxes appear on the
ballot through the voter initiative process.
Audits for New State
Special Taxes. Initiative
Constitutional Amendment.
NO
CA Society of Certified Public
US Senator Bernie Sanders;
Accountants (CalCPAs);
SEIU United Healthcare Workers
CalAsian Chamber of Commerce; West
California Taxpayers Association
(CalTax);
Building a Better California
Reform California
California Chamber of Commerce
Conflicts with Prop 40, and would preempt Prop 40 if it receives Prop 42 description from Secretary of State
more votes.
NO
CA Professional Firefighters;
US Senator Bernie Sanders;
State Building & Construction
SEIU United Healthcare Workers
Trades Council of CA;
West
AMVETS Department of CA;
Building a Better California
Reform California
California Chamber of Commerce
Requires 2/3 supermajority to pass voter-proposed local special Prop 43 description from Secretary of State
PROP 43: Limits Voters’
Ability to Raise Revenues taxes (currently simple majority). Makes it more difficult to fund
fire protection, 911 response, schools, roads, hospitals and
for Local Government
affordable housing.
Services. Legislative
Constitutional Amendment.
NO
California Taxpayers Association;
Family Business Association of
California;
California Hispanic Chambers of
Commerce;
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association
Extreme 90% requirement preventing adequate administrative
Prop 44 description from Secretary of State
PROP 44: Requires
Community Health Clinics funding will shut down hundreds of community health clinics and
Spend 90% Of Revenue on eliminate vital patient services for millions of Californians.
Program Services. Initiative
Statute.
NO
None submitted to SOS
Eliminates many of CEQA’s existing protections. Fast-tracks
Prop 45 description from Secretary of State
development projects and reduces public agency requirements
to consider public comments. LAO warns of "unintended
negative environmental impacts." No requirement to lower costs
of rent, mortgage, or utility bills.
NO
California Children’s Hospital
Association;
California Water Association;
California Council for Affordable
Housing;
California Chamber of
Commerce
Building a Better California
California Building Industry
Association
PG&E
Edison
PROP 42: Prohibits New
State Personal Property
Taxes and Certain
Retroactive State Taxes.
Initiative Constitutional
Amendment.
PROP 45: Modifies
Environmental Review for
Certain Projects. Initiative
Statute.
Prohibits new taxes on the ownership of financial assets or other
personal property; prohibits retroactive taxes.
California Professional
Firefighters;
California Federation of
Teachers;
Nurse Alliance of SEIU CA.
American Academy of Pediatrics
CA;
Service Employees International CA School Nurses Org;
Union-United Healthcare Workers CA Academy of Family
West
Physicians;
CA Medical Assoc.;
The California Primary Care
Association, which represents
clinics
Planned Parenthood Affiliates of
California
California Teachers Association
Coalition for Clean Air;
CA Environmental Voters;
Physicians for Social
Responsibility, LA;
National Wildlife Federation;
Clean and Healthy California
a coalition of environmental
advocates)
California State Building and
Construction Trades Council
Judicial Retention Races – CA Supreme Court, CA Appeals Courts
IndiMarin recommends voting YES for all California Supreme and Appeals Court retention races on the 2026 California ballot.
We have done a cursory internet review of all state Supreme Court and Appellate Justices on the ballot and have found no instances of significant, independently substantiated scandals or public judicial-discipline records.
Given that finding, coupled with the real concern that Republicans may attempt to remove judges who are not sufficiently conservative to skew the courts rightward, we recommend a YES vote for those retention elections.
Marin County
District
Candidates
IndiMarin Summary
US Congressional District
02
Candidates are Jared Huffman (D) and Robin Littau (R)
Congressman Huffman is a seven-term incumbent
with a very strong record supporting the interests of
Californians in CA-02. He is an established
congressional leader on environmental issues.
Huffman is the current ranking member of the
Natural Resources Committee, Vice-Chair of the
Congressional Progressive Caucus and co-founded
the Congressional Freethought Caucus to promote
secular governance, science-based policy, and
religious freedom. Prior to joining Congress, he was
a public interest attorney and served 12 years on the
Marin Water Board and six years in the California
Assembly.
California State Senate
DIstrict 2
Candidates are Damon Connolly (D) and Tief Gibbs (R)
Assemblymember Connolly is a long term North Bay
community and political leader. Since his election to
District 12 in 2022, Connolly’s focus has included
roles on key environmental and energy committees
including the Committee on Utilities and Energy
which oversees the California Energy Commission
and California Public Utilities Commission. He is a
member of the California Legislative Progressive
Caucus and chairs both the Environmental Safety
committee and the select committee on Wildfire
Prevention.
IndiMarin Steering Campaign Endorsements
Committee
Endorsements
Endorsements — Jared Huffman
for Congress
JARED HUFFMAN
Endorsements - Damon Connolly
for State Senate
DAMON CONNOLLY
Prior to his role in the Assembly, Connolly served for
seven years on the San Rafael City Council and
seven years on the Marin County Board of
Supervisors including a term as Board President.
Earlier in his career, Assemblymember Connolly was
a Supervising Deputy California Attorney General
prosecuting the energy companies during the energy
crisis in the early 2000s.
California State Assembly Candidates are Jackie Elward (D) and Eric Lucan (D)
District 12
Detailed summary of our endorsement of Elward
JACKIE ELWARD
AD-12 Assemblyperson Damon
Connolly
Attorney General Rob Bonta
State Treasurer Fiona Ma
fmr State Controller Betty Yee
Sierra Club
Marin County Ballot
Measures
IndiMarin Summary
Description from Marin County
Measure P: Childcare
initiative
Special parcel tax of 5 cents per building square foot, generating Measure P description from Marin County
approximately $12.5 million annually for fifteen years.
IndiMarin Steering Supporters
Committee
Endorsements
YES
Nelson Bronco, MD - FAAP
Pediatrician
Patty Garbarino - Business
Leader
Matt Willis - Public Health
Physician
Mary Jane Burke - Marin County
Superintendent Emerita
League of Women Voters of
Marin County
YES
Jason Ruben, MD, Emergency
CLAY HESS, MD, MPH
Room Physician
Independent Public Health
Jared Huffman, US Congressman Physician
League of Women Voters of
Marin County
Andrew Apolinarski, Local Nurse
North Bay Leadership Council
Funds affordable childcare and high-quality early childhood
education and improve compensation to retain and attract
educators
Measure CC: Marin
Healthcare Initiative
Parcel tax of 14¢ per square foot of improved building area
Measure CC description from Marin County
annually, generating approximately $12,400,000 annually for 30
years. Marin Health District.
Expanded and upgraded emergency room, intensive care
hospital, and other medical facilities to care for trauma, heart
attack, stroke, and other patients and attract qualified doctors
and nurses, with no funds for administrator salaries.
Opponents
SUSAN MORELOCK - Marin
County resident
JOHN TURNACLIFF - Marin
County resident
AMANDA BEYER - Marin County
resident
FRANCIS DROULLIARD - Marin
County resident
TIEF GIBBS - Marin County
resident and business owner