Recommendations
Posted by Guang Peng Tan
Federal Candidates / 聯邦候選人
U.S. Representative, District 11 — Connie Chan
美國國會眾議員第11選區 — 陳詩敏
California Candidates / 加州候選人
Governor — Xavier Becerra
州長 — Xavier Becerra
Lieutenant Governor — Fiona Ma
副州長 — 馬世雲
Controller — Malia Cohen
主計長 — 郭嫻
Attorney General — Rob Bonta
司法部長 — 羅布 · 邦塔
Secretary of State — No Position
州務卿 — 不表態
Insurance Commissioner — No Position
保險專員 — 不表態
San Francisco Candidates / 三藩市候選人
Assessor-Recorder — Joaquín Torres
估值官兼紀錄官 — 郭華健
Public Defender — Mano Raju
公設辯護人 — 力儲文
Board of Supervisors, District 2 — Stephen Sherrill
市參事第2區 — 史蒂芬‧謝里爾
Board of Supervisors, District 4 — Alan Wong
市參事第4區 — 王兆倫
Board of Supervisors, District 6 — Matt Dorsey
市參事第6區 — 麥德城
Board of Supervisors, District 8 — No Position
市參事第8區 — 不表態
Recommended by Endorsement Committee：
Board of Supervisors, District 10 — 1) Theo Ellington，2) Dion-Jay Brookter
市參事第10區 — 1) 艾霖敦，2) 布魯克特
Board of Education — Philip Kim, Virginia Cheung, Laurance Lee
教育委員 — 菲爾金, 張麗娜, 林灼世
Recommended by Endorsement Committee：
City College Trustee — Jeremy Lee, Elijah Ball
市立大學校董 — 李銘富，依利亞
BART Board — No Position
灣區捷運董事會 — 不表態
State Propositions / 聯邦提案
1 — Veterans and Affordable Housing Bond Act — NO POSITION
1 — 退伍軍人及可負擔房屋債券法案 — 不表態
2 — Save for California's Future — YES
2 — 為加州未來儲備資金 — 支持
3 — Permanent Higher Income-Tax Rates on High Earners — YES
3 — 永久延續高收入人士較高所得稅率 — 支持
4 — Public Campaign Financing — YES
4 — 公共資金資助競選活動 — 支持
5 — State Recall Election Process — YES
5 — 州級官員罷免選舉程序 — 支持
37 — Middle-Income Homebuyer Assistance — YES
37 — 中等收入家庭購屋援助 — 支持
38 — Immunology and Immunotherapy Research Bond — NO
38 — 免疫學及免疫療法研究債券 — 反對
39 — Voter Identification and Citizenship Verification — NO
39 — 選民身分證明及公民資格核實 — 反對
40 — Billionaire Wealth Tax — NO
40 — 億萬富豪財富稅 — 反對
41 — Special-Tax Audits and State Spending Limit — YES
41 — 特別稅審計及州政府開支上限 — 支持
42 — Ban on New Wealth/Personal-Property Taxes — YES
42 — 禁止新增財富及個人財產稅 — 支持
43 — Two-Thirds Vote for Local Special Taxes — NO
43 — 地方特別稅須獲三分之二選民通過 — 反對
44 — Community Health Clinic Spending Requirement — NO
44 — 社區健康診所支出規定 — 反對
45 — CEQA Environmental Review Reform — NO
45 — 加州環境品質法環境審查改革 — 反對
Regional Measures / 區域提案
RTM – Regional Transit Measure — YES
RTM – 灣區公共交通提案 — 支持
San Francisco Propositions / 三藩市提案
A — Department, Board, Commission and Advisory Body Updates — YES
A — 市府部門、委員會及諮詢機構改革 — 支持
B — Municipal Finance Corporation and Public Bank — NO
B — 市立金融公司及公共銀行 — 反對
C — Contributions to the Housing Trust Fund — NO POSITION
C — 增加房屋信託基金撥款 — 不表態
D — Changes to the Ballot Measure Process — NO
D — 修改地方提案公投程序 — 反對
E — Extending the City Administrator's Duties and Changes to City Contracting — YES
E — 擴大市政行政官職責及修改市府合約程序 — 支持
F — Changes to Executive Branch Management — NO
F — 修改市府行政部門管理架構 — 反對
G — Great Highway for Everyone — YES
G — 大公路全民共享方案 — 支持
H — Parcel Tax to Fund Public Transit Operations — NO
H — 資助公共交通營運的地產稅 — 反對
I — Changes to the Real Property Transfer Tax — NO
I — 修改房地產轉讓稅 — 反對
J — Removal of Foreclosure Exemption for Real Property Transfer Tax — YES
J — 取消大型物業止贖的房地產轉讓稅豁免 — 支持
CADC's Rationale / 推薦理由
State Propositions
Prop. 1 — Veterans and Affordable Housing Bond Act — NO POSITION
提案 1 — 退伍軍人及可負擔房屋債券法案 — 不表態
Authorizes $11.25 billion in bonds, including $10 billion in General Obligation bonds for affordable and supportive housing, homeownership assistance, preservation and infrastructure, plus $1.25 billion in revenue bonds for veterans' home loans. CADC took No Position because members recognized California's serious housing shortage but had mixed views about the effectiveness and accountability of continued state borrowing for housing, particularly after billions had already been allocated through previous housing bonds. The committee also noted that the annual debt-service cost would be relatively small compared with the overall state budget.
CADC 認同加州房屋短缺問題嚴重，但對政府持續舉債興建可負擔房屋的成效、問責及過往巨額房屋撥款的實際成果意見不一，因此決定不表態。
Prop. 2 — Save for California's Future — YES
提案 2 — 為加州未來儲備資金 — 支持
Expands California's ability to save surplus revenues by increasing the capacity of state reserves and modifying how deposits are treated under the constitutional spending limit. CADC supports Prop. 2 because setting aside more revenue during strong economic years can help California withstand future downturns without imposing a new tax. The committee specifically reconsidered whether Prop. 2 conflicted with Prop. 41 and concluded that the two address different issues: Prop. 2 facilitates saving existing revenue, while Prop. 41 governs how revenue from new special taxes is treated.
CADC 認為在經濟及稅收良好時增加儲備，有助加州應付未來經濟衰退及財政危機，而且無須增加新稅，因此支持提案 2。
Prop. 3 — Permanent Higher Income-Tax Rates on High Earners — YES
提案 3 — 永久延續高收入人士較高所得稅率 — 支持
Makes permanent the higher California income-tax rates originally enacted as temporary taxes and currently scheduled to expire after 2030, affecting roughly the highest-income 2% of taxpayers. CADC supports Prop. 3 because these rates have been in place for many years and generate substantial funding for schools and other public services; allowing them to expire could result in a significant revenue loss. Members supporting the measure viewed continuation as maintaining the existing tax structure rather than imposing a new increase, while several members remained neutral because of California's already-high top income-tax rate.
CADC 多數認為這些稅率已實施多年，延續現行稅率可避免教育及公共服務流失大量收入，因此支持提案 3，但亦有成員對加州目前的高所得稅率有所保留。
Prop. 4 — Public Campaign Financing — YES
提案 4 — 公共資金資助競選活動 — 支持
Removes California's statewide constitutional prohibition against using public money to finance political campaigns, allowing state and local governments to establish public campaign-financing systems with safeguards. It does not itself create or fund a statewide program. CADC supports Prop. 4 because public financing can reduce candidates' dependence on wealthy donors and special interests, and San Francisco already has experience with such a system. The committee also considered the concern that taxpayers would ultimately be financing political campaigns.
CADC 認為公共競選資助可減少候選人對富裕捐款者及特殊利益團體的依賴，而且本提案本身並不直接設立或撥款成立全州性資助計劃，因此支持提案 4。
Prop. 5 — State Recall Election Process — YES
提案 5 — 州級官員罷免選舉程序 — 支持
Changes California's recall process so voters would decide whether an elected state official should be recalled without simultaneously selecting a replacement candidate through the current two-question system. CADC supports Prop. 5 because the existing process can allow a replacement candidate with substantially less than majority support to take office and can turn recalls into partisan alternative elections. The committee concluded that simplifying the process would create a more orderly method for handling vacancies following a successful recall.
CADC 認為現行罷免制度可能讓只獲少數選票的替代候選人上任，簡化程序可使罷免後的職位接替方式更合理，因此支持提案 5。
Prop. 37 — Middle-Income Homebuyer Assistance — YES
提案 37 — 中等收入家庭購屋援助 — 支持
Creates a California Housing Finance Agency program offering qualifying middle-income buyers assistance of up to 17% of the purchase price of certain newly constructed homes, financed through as much as $25 billion in revenue bonds. CADC supports Prop. 37 because it can expand homeownership for middle-income families while encouraging construction of additional housing. Unlike ordinary General Obligation bonds, the bonds are intended to be repaid through the homebuyers' loans rather than directly from the state General Fund, which was an important factor in the committee's support.
CADC 認為此計劃既可協助中等收入家庭置業及鼓勵興建新房屋，而且債券主要由購屋者的貸款償還而非州政府一般基金負擔，因此支持提案 37。
Prop. 38 — Immunology and Immunotherapy Research Bond — NO
提案 38 — 免疫學及免疫療法研究債券 — 反對
Authorizes $8.4 billion in General Obligation bonds for immunology and immunotherapy research, including research involving cancer, heart disease and Alzheimer's disease. CADC recognizes the importance of medical research but opposes Prop. 38 because the state would incur approximately $500 million annually in debt service for about 25 years while the financial and medical returns remain uncertain. Committee members also questioned the fragmented approach of dedicating a large state bond to selected areas of medical research rather than addressing medical research more broadly.
CADC 認同醫學研究的重要性，但認為以巨額州債集中資助特定研究領域、由納稅人長期負擔債務而成果仍具不確定性，因此反對提案 38。
Prop. 39 — Voter Identification and Citizenship Verification — NO
提案 39 — 選民身分證明及公民資格核實 — 反對
Requires government-issued identification for in-person voting, identifying information for mail ballots, and additional government efforts to verify voters' citizenship. CADC opposes Prop. 39 because citizenship is already required to vote and California already uses voter-registration and signature-verification systems. The committee concluded that the additional requirements could create unnecessary barriers for eligible voters while imposing potentially substantial new state and local administrative costs.
CADC 認為現行制度已要求選民具公民資格並設有登記及簽名核實程序，新增身分證明要求可能為合資格選民增加不必要的投票障礙及政府成本，因此反對提案 39。
Prop. 40 — Billionaire Wealth Tax — NO
提案 40 — 億萬富豪財富稅 — 反對
Imposes a one-time tax of up to 5% on certain wealth above $1 billion, with most proceeds directed to health care and additional funding for food assistance, education and administration. CADC opposes Prop. 40 because taxing unrealized wealth and difficult-to-value assets could be administratively complicated and could encourage high-income residents and entrepreneurs to relocate, potentially reducing California's future income-tax base. The committee also objected to exempting the new revenue from the state's constitutional spending limit.
CADC 認為對未實現收益及難以估值的資產徵收財富稅執行複雜，並可能促使高收入人士及企業家遷離加州、長遠削弱所得稅稅基，因此反對提案 40。
Prop. 41 — Special-Tax Audits and State Spending Limit — YES
提案 41 — 特別稅審計及州政府開支上限 — 支持
Requires additional review and auditing of programs funded by newly enacted state special taxes and prevents new taxes from being structured so their revenues escape California's constitutional spending limit. CADC supports Prop. 41 because new taxes should remain subject to established spending controls and accountability requirements. This provision directly conflicts with Prop. 40's attempt to exempt billionaire-tax proceeds from the spending limit, strengthening CADC's position in favor of Prop. 41 and against Prop. 40.
CADC 認為新稅收入亦應受既有政府開支上限及審計制度約束，以維持財政問責，並可制衡提案 40 將新稅收入排除於開支上限之外的安排，因此支持提案 41。
Prop. 42 — Ban on New Wealth/Personal-Property Taxes — YES
提案 42 — 禁止新增財富及個人財產稅 — 支持
Amends the California Constitution to prohibit new state taxes based on ownership or control of personal property—including financial assets, investments, business interests and intellectual property—and restricts certain retroactive state taxes; real estate is excluded. CADC supports Prop. 42 because it establishes a constitutional limit against new wealth or asset taxes and retroactive taxation. It also directly conflicts with Prop. 40's proposed billionaire wealth tax, so if both measures pass, their competing provisions could ultimately depend on which receives more affirmative votes or on judicial resolution.
CADC 認為應以州憲法限制政府新增財富、資產及追溯性稅項，同時制衡提案 40 所提出的億萬富豪財富稅，因此支持提案 42。
Prop. 43 — Two-Thirds Vote for Local Special Taxes — NO
提案 43 — 地方特別稅須獲三分之二選民通過 — 反對
(Committee Vote: 4 NO, 3 YES, 0 ABSTAIN)
Requires local special taxes—taxes dedicated to a particular purpose—to receive two-thirds voter approval whether proposed by government or directly by voters through an initiative. CADC opposes Prop. 43 because it would make it substantially harder for local communities to approve taxes for services they choose to fund.
CADC 認為將該提案把公民聯署提出的地方特別稅與立法會提出的同樣的提案，都統一提高到三分之二選民批准的門檻，會削弱選民的權力。目前公民聯署的特別稅提案的門檻比較低。
Prop. 44 — Community Health Clinic Spending Requirement — NO
提案 44 — 社區健康診所支出規定 — 反對
(Committee Vote: 3 NO, 2 YES, 2 ABSTAIN)
Requires covered nonprofit community health clinics to spend at least 90% of their revenue on health-care services, with enforcement mechanisms for clinics that fail to comply. CADC opposes Prop. 44 because members questioned whether a rigid statewide 90% requirement adequately accounts for administrative and operational costs.
CADC 擔心對所有社區診所實行 “九成收入必須用於健保服務”的硬性規定過於嚴苛僵化，沒有顧及診所的行政及營運需要，因此反對提案 44。
Prop. 45 — CEQA Environmental Review Reform — NO
提案 45 — 加州環境品質法環境審查改革 — 反對
Changes the California Environmental Quality Act by imposing deadlines and expediting environmental review and litigation for certain projects while limiting some alternatives and procedures currently available under CEQA. CADC opposes Prop. 45 because the committee was concerned that accelerating review and restricting alternatives could weaken meaningful environmental protections. Members also noted opposition from organizations and leaders concerned with health, water, air and housing and expressed concern about the measure's heavy financial backing from a small number of wealthy technology-sector supporters.
CADC 認同多個健康、水質及空氣的團體的擔心，這個提案縮短環境審查期限，並削弱重要的環境保障，因此反對提案 45。
Regional Measures
RTM – Regional Transit Measure — YES
RTM – 區域公共交通提案 — 支持
Imposes a 14-year regional sales tax—1% in San Francisco and 0.5% in Alameda, Contra Costa, San Mateo, and Santa Clara counties—to fund transit operations, including Muni, BART, Caltrain, and other Bay Area transit services. CADC supports RTM because public transit needs stable funding to maintain essential service, therefore, a broadly based sales tax spreads the cost across the general population, and is more equitable than Prop H which primarily place the transit-funding burden on property owners.
RTM提案將徵收為期14年的區域銷售稅，三藩市加徵1%，阿拉米達、康特拉科斯塔、聖馬刁及聖他克拉縣加徵0.5%，用於資助 Muni、BART、Caltrain 及其他灣區公共交通系統的營運。CADC 支持此提案，因為公共交通需要穩定的資金來維持必要服務，而由廣大民眾共同承擔的銷售稅，這比主要由業主承擔公交經費的 H 提案公平得多。
San Francisco Propositions
Prop. A — Department, Board, Commission and Advisory Body Updates — YES
提案 A — 市府部門、委員會及諮詢機構改革 — 支持
Restructures San Francisco's extensive system of commissions and advisory bodies by eliminating or consolidating some bodies, standardizing appointment and removal procedures, and making portions of the structure easier to change in the future. CADC supports Prop. A because San Francisco has accumulated numerous overlapping, inactive or duplicative bodies that can diffuse responsibility and consume staff resources. The committee favored clearer lines of accountability and a more streamlined government structure while recognizing the counterargument that commissions provide independent public oversight.
CADC 認為三藩市不少的委員會及諮詢機構職能重疊、缺乏效率，所以精簡架構及釐清責任有助提升政府效率，因此支持提案 A。
Prop. B — Municipal Finance Corporation and Public Bank — NO
提案 B — 市立金融公司及公共銀行 — 反對
Allows San Francisco to establish a nonprofit Municipal Finance Corporation that could finance affordable housing, small businesses and other public priorities and potentially evolve into a city-owned public bank. CADC opposes Prop. B because the measure creates the institutional framework without identifying a secure source for the substantial capitalization needed to establish the bank. Members were concerned about financial risk and committing the City to a banking structure before its funding and long-term viability were clear.
CADC 認為提案在尚未確定巨額啟動資金來源及長期財務可行性之前便建立公共銀行架構，會增加市府財務風險，因此反對提案 B。
Prop. C — Contributions to the Housing Trust Fund — NO POSITION
提案 C — 增加房屋信託基金撥款 — 不表態
Increases the amount of General Fund money San Francisco must dedicate to the Housing Trust Fund and extends the program through 2058 without imposing a new tax. CADC took No Position because members recognized the value of a stable, predictable source of affordable-housing funding but were concerned about locking substantially more General Fund spending into the Charter for decades. The central question was whether additional mandated housing spending would produce enough housing to justify reducing future flexibility to fund other City services.
CADC 認同穩定的可負擔房屋資金有其價值，但把更多的市府營運基金長期鎖定到 2058 年並僅用於建房，會削弱未來市府調配到治安、衛生和其他公共服務經費的彈性，因此對提案 C 決定不表態。
Prop. D — Changes to the Ballot Measure Process — NO
提案 D — 修改地方提案公投程序 — 反對
Changes San Francisco's rules governing how certain measures qualify for and appear on the local ballot. CADC opposes Prop. D because it would effectively eliminate grassroots volunteer signature-gathering as a practical path to the ballot, leaving well-funded campaigns better able to qualify measures by paying professional petition circulators—currently around $18 per signature. CADC has led all five successful grassroots recall campaigns that qualified for the ballot through voter signatures and believes ordinary residents must retain a meaningful and affordable way to petition their government and bring measures directly to voters.
CADC 反對提案 D，因為它大幅限制草根義工通過收集簽名提交公民聯署提案到選舉投票的途徑，使財力雄厚的競選團體 - 有能力支付 $18一個簽名的專業財團更具優勢。CADC 曾成功帶領五次公民聯署的草根罷免運動，因此認為必須保留一個普通市民可以通過聯署將議題直接交由選民做決定的可行途徑。
Prop. E — Extending the City Administrator's Duties and Changes to City Contracting — YES
提案 E — 擴大市政行政官職責及修改市府合約程序 — 支持
Expands and centralizes the City Administrator's authority over procurement, contracts, technology and multi-department projects while increasing the dollar thresholds at which contracts require individual Board of Supervisors approval. CADC supports Prop. E because members believe San Francisco's contracting and procurement system can be unnecessarily slow and fragmented and that clearer centralized responsibility can improve efficiency and accountability. The committee nevertheless recognized that the measure reduces some case-by-case oversight of contracts by the Board of Supervisors.
CADC 認為目前市府採購及合約程序過於分散及緩慢，適度集中行政責任可提高效率及問責，雖然部分市議會的某些合約監督權會減少，仍決定支持提案 E。
Prop. F — Changes to Executive Branch Management — NO
提案 F — 修改市府行政部門管理架構 — 反對
(Committee Vote: 4 NO, 2 YES, 4 ABSTAIN)
Gives the Mayor greater authority over department heads, commissioners, and City reorganization, and in some areas changes the Board of Supervisors' role from prior approval to the ability to reject a Mayoral action after it is proposed. CADC recognizes the goal of making the Mayor more accountable for department performance, but is concerned about weakening independent oversight. Having already supported Prop. A to streamline commissions and Prop. E to expand the City Administrator's authority and streamline contracting, CADC believes Prop. F goes a step too far by further reducing existing checks and balances.
CADC 認同加強市長對部門表現的問責能力，但提案 F 將進一步削弱獨立監督；CADC 已支持了提案 A – 精簡委員會，及提案 E – 擴大市府行政官的權力和簡化合同程序，因此認為提案 F 再進一步削減現有制衡並不恰當。
Prop. G — Great Highway for Everyone — YES
提案 G — 大公路全民共享方案 — 支持
Reopens the Upper Great Highway to vehicles on weekdays while maintaining recreational use on weekends and holidays, creating a compromise between transportation access and the recreational use established after the roadway's permanent closure. CADC supports Prop. G as a balanced approach that preserves the corridor for recreation while restoring weekday transportation access for working families, seniors, people with disabilities and others who rely on vehicles. The committee viewed the measure as allowing San Francisco to share the corridor rather than forcing an all-road or all-park choice.
CADC 認為平日恢復行車、週末及假日保留康樂用途，是兼顧上班家庭、長者、殘障人士交通需要及市民休閒空間的共享折衷方案，因此支持提案 G。
Prop. H — Parcel Tax to Fund Public Transit Operations — NO
提案 H — 資助公共交通營運的地產稅 — 反對
Creates a 15-year parcel tax projected to generate approximately $160 million annually for Muni operations, with different rates for residential and commercial properties and limited pass-throughs to some rent-controlled tenants. CADC opposes Prop. H because San Francisco voters are simultaneously being asked to approve a regional transit sales tax that would also provide substantial new funding to Muni. The committee believed SFMTA should demonstrate greater cost control and accountability before property owners and some renters are asked to shoulder another dedicated tax, particularly one that increases with inflation.
CADC 認為同一選舉已有區域交通銷售稅 (RTM) 為 MUNI 提供新收入，SFMTA 應先加強成本控制及財政問責，而非再向業主及部分租客徵收另一項長達 15 年的稅項，因此反對提案 H。
Prop. I — Changes to the Real Property Transfer Tax — NO
提案 I — 修改房地產轉讓稅 — 反對
Changes San Francisco's transfer tax on very large real-estate transactions by redirecting a substantial portion of the revenue toward affordable housing rather than leaving it available for general City purposes. CADC opposes Prop. I because the measure would restrict future use of volatile transfer-tax revenue and reduce the City's flexibility to respond to changing budget needs. Members supported affordable housing as a goal but concluded that elected officials should retain greater discretion over General Fund resources rather than permanently earmarking this revenue.
CADC 支持可負擔房屋的目標，但認為不應將波動較大的房地產轉讓稅收入長期指定用途，而削弱市府應付其他公共服務及財政需要的彈性，因此反對提案 I。
Prop. J — Removal of Foreclosure Exemption for Real Property Transfer Tax — YES
提案 J — 取消大型物業銀主盤時的轉讓稅豁免 — 支持
Removes San Francisco's transfer-tax exemption when lenders take ownership of certain large commercial or multifamily properties through foreclosure, while preserving the exemption for single-family homes, condominiums and residential properties with fewer than five units. CADC supports Prop. J because the majority concluded that large lenders and investors taking ownership of major properties should not automatically receive a transfer-tax exemption unavailable in an ordinary sale and that such properties should contribute to City revenues. Members also considered the opposing concern that imposing a transfer tax during foreclosure could increase lenders' losses, discourage financing or complicate the recovery of distressed properties.
CADC 認為，企業銀行或投資行在大型商業楼宇或公寓住宅遭遇到銀主盤被收回時，無需獲得如獨立屋或小型住宅同樣的轉讓稅的豁免，因此支持提案 J。
Share
Endorsements
Posted by Josephine Zhao
Candidates / 候選人
FEDERAL /聯邦
US House of Rep #11 (1 seat, top 2): Marie Hurabiell (why?) or Connie Chan (why?)
國會眾議員11席：許曉慧 或 陳詩敏
US House of Rep #15: Kevin Mullin
國會眾議員15席：Kevin Mullin
STATE / 加州
Governor: Matt Mahan (why?)
州長：馬漢
Lt. Governor: Fiona Ma
副州長：馬世雲
Controller: Malia Cohen
主計長：郭嫻
Attorney General: Rob Bonta
總檢察長：羅布 · 邦塔
Insurance Commissioner: Patrick Wolff
保險委員：派崔克 · 沃爾夫
Assembly AD17: Matt Haney
加州眾議員17區：楊馳馬
Assembly AD19: Catherine Stefani
加州眾議員19區：司嘉儀
SAN FRANCISCO / 三藩市
Superior Court Judge Seat #16: Phoebe H. Maffei
高等法院法官（第16席）：菲碧 · H · 馬菲
Board of Education (1 seat): Phil Kim or Virginia Cheung (why?)
教育委員（1席）：菲爾金 或 張麗娜
Board of Supervisor, District 4 (why?)
市參事，第四區
Albert Chow 周紹鋆 (why?)
Alan Wong 王兆倫
Natalie Gee 朱凱勤
City Propositions / 三藩市提案
Prop. A - NO (why?)
提案 A - 反對
Prop. B - NO (why?)
提案 B - 反對
Prop. C - Yes (why?)
提案 C - 贊成
Prop. D - NO (why?)
提案 D - 反對
Recommendation Rationale / 推荐理由
Matt Mahan for Governor:
"The Chinese American Democratic Club (CADC) endorsed San Jose Mayor Matt Mahan because we share many of the same concerns about the direction of California and the disconnect between everyday residents and Sacramento. Matt Mahan brings an outsider’s mindset focused on accountability, practical solutions, and restoring trust in government. We believe he is willing to challenge ineffective systems, do some much-needed house cleaning, and put the needs of working families, small businesses, and local communities first. It is time for change in California."
Marie Hurabiell for Congress:
“Chinese American Democratic Club (CADC) has proudly endorsed Marie Hurabiell for Congress. Marie is a pragmatic leader who brings a common-sense approach to making government more accountable and efficient. She stood with CADC during critical moments, including the recall of District Attorney Chesa Boudin and opposing Prop K. Having interned in Nancy Pelosi’s congressional office and later serving as a federally appointed trustee, she understands how to navigate government and deliver results. As the organizer of the 30,000-member ConnectedSF and an early supporter of Daniel Lurie, she has championed clean streets and safer neighborhoods. Marie prioritizes affordability by tackling rising energy costs and government waste, while advancing AI security and exploring Universal Basic Income. We believe she will be an effective voice for our community.”
Connie Chan for Congress:
“The Chinese American Democratic Club (CADC) endorses Connie Chan for Congress. We believe this moment calls for a Chinese American representative who can carry our community’s voice and lived experiences to Washington, D.C. Connie brings a collaborative, ground-up approach to governance, with a focus on protecting the infrastructure and cultural fabric of multigenerational families and immigrant enclaves in neighborhoods like the Richmond and Sunset, while stepping up the work to address key concerns such as public safety and clean streets. In contrast to top-down proposals such as Proposition K and sweeping zoning changes, Connie Chan supports community-driven solutions that reflect neighborhood needs. We believe she will be an effective voice for our community in Congress.”
Dual Endorsement for the Board of Education
Vote for either Phil Kim or Virginia Cheung. This dual endorsement is because CADC has endorsed both Phil and Virginia in the past. CADC would like Phil to continue to serve. As new seats open for November, both deserve support.
District 4 Supervisor Ranked-Choice Voting
CADC endorsed Albert Chow #1, Alan Wong #2 and Natalie Gee #3, is to ensure we model unity in the Chinese community, and also allow the ranking to differentiate the representations that best represent the community voice given the turbulence in the Sunset in the past 2 years in the fights that CADC has joined and led. With an AAPI population of over 53%, the Sunset District deserves representatives who understand the community. See more here.
Albert Chow for District 4 Supervisor #1
Albert Chow is a proven community leader who led the consequential 2024 No on K campaign that CADC supported, in order to preserve the Great Highway compromise and protect the fabric of Westside’s multigenerational community. As a legacy hardware store owner who knows the nuts and bolts of the neighborhood, and longtime leader of People of Parkside Sunset (POPS), he has built beloved community traditions like Movie Nights and Tree Lighting, and helped launch the Farmers Market, Night Markets, Chinese Culture District and Great Hauntway. Albert has delivered real results, including safer crossings on Sunset Boulevard and $1 million for Taraval merchants affected by L-Taraval construction. He has made a lasting impact across District 4.
Proposition A - NO Earthquake Safety and Emergency Response Bond
Breakdown of this 535 Million Bond:
130 Million – Strength firefighting water system
100 Million retrofit fire stations
72 Million retrofit police stations
200 Million Upgrade Potrero Muni Yard Project
Even though the Controller said there is no new taxes, the biggest portion of this bond is spent on building housing at the Potrero Muni Yard. This proposition is misleading and still does not address the lack of comprehensive firefighting water system West of 19th Ave for Sunset and the Westside.
Prop. B - NO Lifetime Term Limits for Mayor and Members of the Board of Supervisors
The mayor and a supervisor would be allowed to serve only two four-year terms for each office. These limits would apply whether the terms are consecutive or nonconsecutive.
Although the Controller stated there is no cost to government, only one San Francisco politician has qualified for this ballot measure. If this proposition had applied at the state level, Jerry Brown would not have been both the youngest and the oldest governor in California history.
Prop. C - YES Decreases to Business Taxes
Exempt most businesses with up to 7.5 million in San Francisco gross receipts taxes and the Top Executive Pay Tax. This mainly affects small businesses.
Accelerate the 2028 Top Executive Pay Tax increase to apply in 2027.
Controller: Decreases in annual revenue to the City in the range of 30 million to 40 million. It would decrease the number of businesses subject to two existing taxes
Prop. D - NO Increases to Business Tax Based on Comparison of Top Executive Pay to Employees Pay
Impose Top Executive Pay Tax formula to change from compensation of all employees, not just those in San Francisco
Increases Top Executive Pay Tax rates for most businesses to between: 0.183% and 1.21% of their San Francisco gross receipts
Increase Top Executive Pay Tax rates who pay S.F. payroll expenses to between 0.75% and 4.47%.
Controller. This ordinance would result in additional annual revenue to the City in the range of $250 million to 300 million. The ordinance would increase tax rates by approximately 800%. There is potential risk of business relocation.
Voting Percentages
In a general meeting, qualified members can cast their votes to support a slate or choose their own. A 60% threshold is required to defeat the slate.
At the membership meeting, the following slates prevailed:
US House of Rep #11: Slate - 75%
US House of Rep #15: Slate - 100%
Assembly AD17: Slate - 88%
Assembly AD19: Slate: 100%
Superior Court Judge Seat #16: Slate: 94%
Board of Education: Slate: 68%
4 City Propositions: Slate: 74%
At the membership meeting, the following slates won:
Governor, Lt. Governor, Attorney General: Slate - 74%
Board of Supervisor, District 4: Slate - 81%
Read more
Share
CADC Endorsed Albert Chow, Alan Wong & Natalie Gee for District 4 Supervisor
Posted by Info Cadc
Congratulations to Albert Chow, Supervisor Alan Wong, and Natalie Gee for receiving CADC’s overwhelming endorsements as the #1, #2 and #3 ranked candidates for District 4 Supervisor, respectively.
This ranked choice slate is to ensure we model unity in the Chinese community, and also allow the ranking to differentiate the representations that best represent the community voice given the turbulence in the Sunset in the past 2 years in the fights that CADC has joined and led.
The vote to support this slate exceeded 81%. With an AAPI population of over 53%, the Sunset District deserves representatives who understand the community.
Related:
CADC Fundraiser for Albert Chow for Supervisor
Share
Endorsements
Posted by Info Cadc
Support CADC in the upcoming elections, donate to the CADC-PAC today.
Candidates / 候選人
FEDERAL /聯邦
President and VP: Harris & Walz
總統和副總統：哈里斯 & 沃爾茲
US Senator: Adam Schiff
國會參議員：Adam Schiff
US House of Rep #11: Nancy Pelosi
國會眾議員11席：普洛西
US House of Rep #15: Kevin Mullin
國會眾議員15席：Kevin Mullin
STATE / 加州
Senate D11: Scott Wiener
加州參議員：威善高
Assembly AD17: Matt Haney
加州眾議員17區：楊馳馬
Assembly AD19: Catherine Stefani
加州眾議員19區：司嘉儀
SAN FRANCISCO / 三藩市
Mayor / 市長:
Mark Farrell / 麥法恩
Daniel Lurie / 羅偉
London Breed / 布里德
District 1 Supervisor: Marjan Philhour
第一區市參事：邁珍
District 3 Supervisor / 第三區市參事:
Danny Sauter / 李爾德
Moe Jamil / 麥贊明 或/or Sharon Lai / 黎慧心
District 5 Supervisor / 第五區市參事：
Autumn Looijen / 洛珍
Bilal Mahmood / 馬百樂
District 7 Supervisor / 第七區市參事：
Matt Boschetto / 馬修 ‧ 博施基托
Stephen Martin-Pinto / 史蒂芬 ‧ 馬丁-平托
District 9 Supervisor: Trevor Chandler
第九區市參事：陳澤維
District 11 Supervisor: Michael Lai
第十一區市參事：賴天宸
City Attorney: David Chiu
市府律師：邱信福
District Attorney: Brooke Jenkins
地檢官：謝安宜
Sheriff: Paul Miyamoto
郡警：保罗·宫本
Treasurer: Jose Cisneros
財長：Jose Cisneros
Board of Education / 教育委員:
Supriya Ray / 苏普里亚 * 雷
Laurance Lem Lee / 林灼世
Ann Hsu / 徐安
Virginia Cheung /张丽娜
Community College / 社區大學:
Leanna Louie / 雷千紅
Alan Wong / 王兆倫
Ben Kaplan / 班勇杰
State Propositions / 加州提案
Prop 2 - Yes: $10 Billion School Bonds
提案 2 - 贊成：為學校發行 1 千億債券
Prop 3 - YES: Marriage Equality
提案 3 - 贊成：婚姻平等
Prop 4 - Yes: Bond for safe drinking water and wildfire prevention
提案 4 - 贊成：安全飲用水和山火防止債券
Prop 5 - NO: Lower some bond threshold from 66.7% to 55%
提案 5 - 反對：把發行某些債券的門檻從 66.7% 降低到 55%
Prop 6 - No: Discontinue inmate incentives for doing chores in prison
提案 6 - 反對：終止現在對囚犯在服刑期間做洗衣清潔等差事的獎勵
Prop 32 - No: Raise statewide minimum wage higher than inflation
提案 32 - 反對：把全州到最低工資提高到高於通脹漲幅
Prop 33 - NO: Expand rent control permanently to below market rate
提案 33 - 反对：永久實施低於市價的租金管制
Prop 34 - YES: Restrict spending by health care nonprofits outside of their core businesses
提案 34 - 贊成：限制醫療保健非謀利機構在業務以外的開支
Prop 36 - YES: Increase drug possessions penalty from misdemeanor to felony & referred to treatment; increase sentencing on theft crimes
提案 36 - 贊成：對藏毒罪從小罪加為重罪並轉介治療；對盜竊罪增加刑罰
City Propositions / 三藩市提案*
Prop. A - No Recommendation : $790 Million Bond for SFUSD
提案 A - 無推薦：為三藩市校區發行 7 億 9 千萬的債券
Prop. B - Yes: $390 Million Bond for Chinatown Community Health & etc
提案 B - 贊成：為衛生健康、街道安全、無家可歸發行 3 億 9 千萬的債券
Prop. C - No: Create a non-elected Inspector General in Controller’s office
提案 C - 反對：在市府的財政控制辦公室增設一位不是選舉出來的“總監察官”職位
Prop. D - YES: Streamline the 130 City Commissions and realign mayoral authority
提案 D - 贊成：精簡市政府委員會和理順市長權力
Prop. E - NO: Add an overseeing commission on the existing 130 City Commissions
提案 E - 反對：130 個委員會上再建立一個總管理的委員會
Prop. F - Yes: Allow retired law enforcement members to work again with delayed pension
提案 F - 贊成：允許退休的執法人員延遲領取退休金返回崗位繼續工作
Prop. G - Yes: Use City’s general fund to subsidize housing for extremely low-income residents
提案 G - 贊成：從三藩市政府的營運基金中撥款為極低收入的居民提供住房補貼
Prop. H - Yes: Lower firefighter retirement age from 58 to 55
提案 H - 贊成：降低消防員 58 歲的退休年齡到 55 歲
Prop. I - Yes: More benefits for city nurses & 911 operators to stem shortage
提案 I - 贊成：為城市護士和 911 接線員提供更多福利，以解決短缺問題
Prop. J - Yes: Require City & SFUSD to create a process for youth funding accountability
提案 J - 贊成：要求市府和三藩市校區制定一個流程去問責給青少年的撥款
Prop K - NO: Permanently closing the Upper Great Highway to private cars
提案 K - 反對：永久向私人車輛關閉海傍公路
Prop. L - Yes: Tax rideshare companies like Uber, Lyft & Waymo to fund public transportation
提案 L - 贊成：對優步、Lyft 和 Waymo 等共乘公司徵稅，以為公共交通提供資金
Prop. M - Yes: Reduce taxes on business revenue & payroll. These taxes are used to fund homelessness
提案 M - 贊成：減少向企業徵收總收入稅和工資稅。這些稅項目前用於資助無家可歸者的服務
Prop. N - No: Create a City fund to pay for student loans for First Responders
提案 N - 反對：創建政府基金來支付急救人員的學生貸款
Prop. O - Yes: Declaration of Policy on Reproductive Freedom
提案 O - 贊成：生育節育自由的政策聲明
About the Chinese American Democratic Club (CADC)
As one of the oldest political clubs in the United States for Chinese Americans, CADC has been empowering the Chinese American community and uplifting families and young people in San Francisco. CADC led anti-discrimination and anti-Asian Hate movements, as well as the 2022 recalls of school board and district attorney. We are at the forefront of advocacies.
關於「華裔民主黨協進會」(CADC)
華裔民主黨協進會是全美歷史最悠久的華人公民權利組織之一。自1958年，本會一直在為賦權於華人社區而努力，並以提升三藩市的家庭和年輕人扎根的機會為首要任務。本會在反歧視、「停止亞裔仇恨」、罷免教委和罷免地檢官的運動中始終如一地走在最前線，帶領華人社區進行倡導。
Support CADC in the upcoming elections, donate to the CADC-PAC today.
Support CADC in the upcoming elections, donate to the CADC-PAC today.
Share
Endorsements
Posted by Brian Quan
Support CADC in the upcoming elections, donate to the CADC-PAC today.
Candidates 候選人
Democratic Central Committee, District 17 (14 seats) 第十七区（东区）民主党中央委员会委员（选14名）
Placement/第几位置 - Name/名字：
4 Lily Ho / 何元麗
7 Nancy Tung / 汤曉慧
9 Michael Lai / 赖天宸
11 Laurance Lee / 林灼世
12 Peter Lee / 李浩力世
13 Trevor Chandler / 陳澤維世
29 Bilal Mahmood / 馬百樂
Democratic Central Committee, District 19 (10 seats) 第十九区（西区）民主党中央委员会委员（选十名）
Placement/第几位置 - Name/名字：
2 Parag Gupta / 帕拉格 ᐧ 古普塔
5 Jade Tu / 徐加儀
10 Mike Chen / 陳懋華塔
13 Lanier Coles / 拉尼爾 ᐧ 科爾斯塔
17 Marjan Philhour / 邁珍
21 Brian Quan / 關達民
What is the San Francisco Democratic County Central Committee (DCCC)？
The DCCC is one of the most influential organizations in San Francisco. It weighs heavily on who can be an elected official in this city and what policies are established. It is made up of twenty four (24) members elected by registered Democrats in San Francisco. Fourteen (14) of the members are elected by registered Democratic voters who live in the Eastern district (AD17); Ten (10) are elected by registered Democratic voters who live in the Western district (AD19). Only registered Democratic voters’ ballot list those
什麼是「三藩市民主黨中央委員會委員（San Francisco Democratic County Central Committee）」
這個委員會，簡稱 DCCC，是三藩市最有影響力的機構，影響本市誰能做民選官員 、什麼政策被設立。這個委員會有24名民選的委員，是由本市的民主黨註冊選民選出來的。其中 14 名委員由東區（AD17區）的民主黨選民選出，10名由西區（AD19區）選出。你必須是民主黨註冊選民才能在選票上看到這項重要的選舉。請重新註冊為民主黨，參與最重要的議政。選區地圖：
US Senate / 聯邦參議員
Barbara Lee (Full Term as well as Partial/Unexpired Term) / 芭芭拉 ᐧ 李
US Representative District 11 / 聯邦第 11 區眾議員
Nancy Pelosi (Incumbent) / 普羅西（現任）
State Senate District 11 / 加州第 11 區 參議員
Scott Wiener (Incumbent) / 威善高（現任）
State Assembly District 17 / 加州第 17 區眾議員
Matt Haney (Incumbent) / 楊馳馬（現任）
State Assembly District 19 / 加州第 19 區眾議員
Catherine Stefani
Superior Court Judge Seat #1 / 三藩市高等法院法官第 1 席
Chip Zecher (Challenger) / 奇普·澤徹（挑戰者）
Superior Count Judge Seat #13 / 三藩市高等法院法官第 13 席
Jean Myungjin Roland (Challenger) / 姜明振（挑戰者）
Propositions / 提案
State Propositions / 州題案
Proposition 1 – The Behavioral Health Infrastructure Bond Act – YES
提案 1 -- 精神健康基建債券 - 贊成
City Propositions 市題案
Prop. A – Affordable Housing Bonds – No Position
提案 A -- 可負擔住房債券 - 無決議
Prop. B – The "Cop Tax" - Full staffing for police depends on raising future taxes – NO
提案 B -- 所謂的“警察稅” - 警局能否得到滿員配置必須依賴未來的升稅 - 反對
Prop. C – Waives transfer tax to convert commercial buildings to residential – YES
提案 C -- 把寫字樓轉為住宅樓時，豁免轉讓稅 - 贊成
Prop. D – Changes to Local Ethics Laws – No Position
提案 D -- 改變本市的操守法 - 無決議
Prop. E – Give officers more tools on the streets – YES
提案 E -- 給予警員執法時更多的工具 - 贊成
Prop. F – Requires treatment, not sobriety, to qualify for the city's cash assistance – YES
提案 F -- 要求進行毒品治療才有資格獲得三藩市政府的現金援助 - 贊成
Prop. G – Offering Algebra 1 to Eighth Graders – YES
提案 G -- 向八年級學生提供代數課 - 贊成
Share
Endorsements
Posted by Info Cadc
Endorsements
(voted on at 9/8 endorsement meeting)
Candidates 候選人
U.S. Representative, CA-11: Nancy Pelosi 美國眾議院議員 第11選區 : 南希，佩洛西
U.S. Representative, CA-15: Kevin Mullin 美國眾議院議員 第15選區 : 凱文穆林
United States Senate: Alex Padilla 美國參議員 : 亞歷克 帕迪
Governor: Gavin Newsom 州長 : 加文，紐森
Lieutenant Governor: Eleni Kounalakis 副州長 : 康伊蓮
Secretary of State: Dr. Shirley N. Weber 州務卿 : 雪麗 韋伯
Controller: Malia M. Cohen 主計長 : 郭嫻
Treasurer: Fiona Ma 財政部長 : 馬世雲
Attorney General: Rob Bonta 司法部長 : 羅布，邦塔
State Assembly, District 17: Matt Haney 州眾議員第17選區 : 楊馳馬
State Assembly, District 19: No Recommendation 州眾議員第19選區 : 無決議
Board of Equalization, District 2: No Recommendation 平稅局委員 : 無決議
San Francisco Assessor-Recorder: Joaquín Torres 估值官－記錄官 : 郭華健
District Attorney: Brooke Jenkins 地方檢察官 : 謝安宜
Public Defender: Mano Raju 公共辯護律師 : 力儲文
BART Board, District 8: Janice Li 灣區捷運董事 : 李正元
SFUSD Board of Education (3 seats) 三藩市教育委員會
Ann Hsu 徐安
Lainie Motamedi 黎美兒
Lisa Weissman-Ward 李慧文
CCSF Board of Trustees - 4 year term (3 seats) 市立大學董事成員 (4年期)
Anita Martinez 安妮塔‧馬丁內茲
Jill Yee 余小平
Marie Hurabiell 許曉慧
CCSF Board of Trustees - 2 year term (1 seat) 市立大學董事成員 (2年期)
No Recommendation 無決議
Board of Supervisors 市區市參事
District 2: Catherine Stefani 第2選區 : 司嘉怡
District 4: Joel Engardio 第4選區 : 殷嘉立
District 6: Matt Dorsey 第6選區 : 麥德誠
District 8: Rafael Mandelman 第8選區 : 孟達文
District 10: No Endorsement 第10選區 : 無決議
Propositions 提案
State Propositions 州題案
Proposition 1 – Constitutional right to reproductive freedom – YES
贊成 -- 提案 1 生育自由的憲法權利
Proposition 26 – Allows more gambling activities on tribal lands – NO
反對 -- 提案 26 准許在部落土地面對面賭博,遊戲機和體育博彩
Proposition 27 – Allows online and mobile sports gambling outside tribal lands – NO
反對 -- 提案 27 准許在部落土地以外上網路體育博彩
Proposition 28 – Provides additional funding for arts and music education in public schools – YES
贊成 -- 提案 28 為公立學校的藝術和音樂教育提供額外資源
Proposition 29 – Requires on-site licensed medical professional at kidney dialysis clinics and other requirements – NO
反對 -- 提案 29 在洗腎診所，要求持有執照的醫療專業人員在場，並確立州政府的其他需求
Proposition 30 – Provides funding for air pollution reduction programs and wildfire prevention programs through 2 million plus income income tax increase – NO
反對 -- 提案 30 透過對個人年薪超過200萬美元增稅，為減少空氣污染和預防野火的計劃提供資金
Proposition 31 – Referendum on 2020 law that would prohibit sale of certain flavored tobacco products – YES
贊成 -- 提案 31 對2020年禁止零售某些添加味道菸草製品法律的公投
City Propositions 市題案
Prop. A – Retiree Supplemental Cost of Living Adjustment – YES
贊成 -- 提案 A 調整退休公務人員補充生活費
Prop. B – Public Works Department and Commission, Sanitation and Streets Department and Commission – YES
贊成 -- 提案 B 取消衛生與街道局，工作更改由公務局負責。保留工務局委員會及衛生與街道委員會
Prop. C – Homeless Oversight Commission – NO POSITION
無決議 -- 提案 C 設立無家可歸者監督委員會
Prop. D – Affordable Housing – Initiative – YES
贊成 -- 提案 D 增速批准可負擔房屋政策 。選民簽名請願案
Prop. E – Affordable Housing – Board of Supervisors – NO
反對 -- 提案 E 增速批准可負擔房屋政策 。市議會提意
Prop. F – Library Preservation Fund – YES
贊成 -- 提案 F 延長圖書館保護基金再多25年
Prop. G – Student Success Fund - Grants to SFUSD – YES
贊成 -- 提案 G 對三藩市聯合校區的額外撥款15年期 作為學生成功基金
Prop. H – City Elections in Even-Numbered Years – NO
反對 -- 提案 H 改變在雙數年舉行的市府選舉
Prop. I – Vehicles on JFK Drive in Golden Gate Park and the Great Highway – YES
贊成 -- 提案 I 允許汽車駕駛在金門公園內甘迺迪大道（JFK Drive） 以及大公路（Great Highway)運行 ，除了特別時間限制。
Prop. J – Recreational Use of JFK Drive in Golden Gate Park – YES
贊成 -- 提案 J 金門公園內甘迺迪大道（JFK Drive） 的休閒使用，限制汽車通行一週七天
Prop. L – Sales Tax for Transportation Projects – YES
贊成 -- 提案 L 繼續半仙銷售稅，用於交通項目和允許交通局發行債券
Prop. M – Tax on Keeping Residential Units Vacant – NO
反對 -- 提案 M 政府開始從業主打空缺租戶稅。如果放空租房超過182天
Prop. N – Golden Gate Park Underground Parking Facility; Golden Gate Park Concourse Authority – YES
贊成 -- 提案 N 城市公園管理部門接管金門公園地下停車設施
Prop. O – Additional Parcel Tax for City College – NO
反對 -- 提案 O 從業主增加物業稅用於市立大學的活動
Share
Statewide Direct Primary Endorsements
Posted by Brian Quan
Candidates 候選人
U.S. Representative, CA-11: Nancy Pelosi 美國眾議院議員 第十一選區 : 南希，佩洛西
United States Senate: Alex Padilla 美國參議員 : 亞歷克 帕迪
Governor: Gavin Newsom 州長 : 加文，紐森
Lieutenant Governor: Eleni Kounalakis 副州長 : 康伊蓮
Secretary of State: Dr. Shirley N. Weber 州務卿 : 雪麗N 韋伯
Controller: Malia M. Cohen 主計長 : 郭嫻
Treasurer: Fiona Ma 財政部長 : 馬世雲
Attorney General: Rob Bonta 總檢察長 : 羅布，邦塔
State Assembly, District 17: Matt Haney 州眾議員第17選區 : 楊馳馬
Board of Equalization, District 2: Michela Alioto-Pier 平稅局委員 第二選區 : 麥希娜，阿里奧圖-皮雅
San Francisco City Attorney: David Chiu 市檢察官 : 邱信福
Read more
Share
Endorsements for Special Elections
Posted by Brian Quan
Endorsements for Special Elections
Prop. A: Recall Board of Education Member Alison Collins - YES
Prop. B: Recall Board of Education Member Gabriela Lopez - YES
Prop. C: Recall Board of Education Member Faauuga Moliga - YES
Assembly District 17 Candidates: 1st Matt Haney/楊馳馬, 2nd Bilal Mahmood/馬百樂
Warning: Vote for one candidate or the other, but not for both. Voting for two candidates will invalidate your vote.
San Francisco Assessor-Recorder: Joaquín Torres/郭華健 - YES
Share
Endorsements for Special Elections
Posted by Brian Quan
Endorsements for 2021 Special Elections
California Governor's Recall
No
State Assembly, District 18
Mia Bonta
Share
Endorsements for the Election
Posted by Brian Quan
Read more
Share
«
1
2
»