Advertise
Events
Podcast
Donate/Support
Business Club
[Contra Costa News]
[mdrr]
Home » Editorial: The Antioch Endorsements I Never Thought I’d Make
AntiochOpinion
Editorial: The Antioch Endorsements I Never Thought I’d Make
By Mike Burkholder
by CC News
written by CC News
102
if you told me I’d be writing these endorsements for the Antioch City Council, I would have called you crazy.
No freaking way. Absolutely not. Never in a million years!
But I’ve learned two things lately when it comes to Antioch:
Never say never.
Apparently anything can happen.
Because here we are, Antioch has officially broken my brain.
There is no serious debate that Antioch is a mess. The City has spent years stepping on rakes, tripping over itself and somehow finding another rake.
The current “undo council” was elected with a mandate to change direction. So far, there has been plenty of talk about undoing things and not nearly enough actual fixing.
Antioch needs major changes.
But looking at the 2026 ballot, I don’t believe those changes are coming from simply replacing the two incumbents.
And I cannot believe I’m typing this, but my view of Tamisha Torres-Walker in District 1 and Monica Wilson in District 4 has changed.
[Antioch]
Torres-Walker & Joy Motts
DISTRICT 1: TORRES-WALKER VS. MOTTS
Torres-Walker has made mistakes. Plenty of them. She has said and done things I’ve criticized repeatedly – bottom line, we battled! I probably still disagree with her half the time.
But something has changed which should be blatantly obvious to most people. She has grown.
Strip away the political teams, Facebook wars, personalities and old grudges, and I believe Torres-Walker genuinely wants Antioch to succeed for everyone — key word, EVERYONE!
More importantly, she raises issues Antioch has ignored, minimized or addressed with the governmental equivalent of duct tape and prayer. And lately, she appears far more willing to work with people she previously battled.
That matters.
Antioch doesn’t need five people who agree with each other. It needs five adults capable of disagreeing without turning City Hall into WrestleMania.
Over the past two years, the more I’ve actually listened to Torres-Walker instead of listening to what everyone says about Torres-Walker, the more I’ve reconsidered my own opinion.
Maybe some of us had her wrong.
People will bring up her past. Fair game as some pretty crazy things have occurred.
However, I’m looking at the NEXT four years.
Then there is Joy Motts.
Motts had an enormous opportunity to grab this race by the throat. Especially when Diane Gibson-Gray dropped out. Whether its arrogance or entitlement, she hasn’t stepped up.
Instead, too much of the conversation keeps circling back to downtown, the Beede Lumber Yard and grievances from previous elections — while somehow acting as if she is running as a first time candidate and ignoring her own poor record on the Antioch school board and city council, both left a mess.
Bottom line, Antioch is 29 square miles. Economic development cannot begin and end at a dirt lot or two square blocks.
Motts’ own campaign lists economic growth, business retention and downtown revitalization among her priorities. Those are legitimate issues. But it doesn’t help Motts, who is president of Celebrate Antioch Foundation, abandoned the businesses downtown when they were needed most and took events across town to a park. It also doesn’t help when she was previously on city council and decisions made actually hurt business and development. Unlike Torres-Walker, Motts has failed to take any type of accountability for her past record or votes.
Furthermore, Motts needed to share how her plans would differ from Walkers. How her vision of Antioch becomes more competitive for businesses citywide, how existing businesses survive, how jobs are created and how the City stops watching opportunities drive down Highway 4 toward somewhere else.
And enough with relitigating the last election about a few votes that didn’t go your way. At some point you stop staring into the rearview mirror before you drive directly into a tree.
If you look at the city council as a bowl of soup, Torres-Walker makes the recipe complete as she represents an entire community that would otherwise be ignored by the city and that can’t happen ever again.
L to R: Andrew Becker, Monica Wilson, Sandra White
DISTRICT 4: THIS WAS NOT ON MY 2026 BINGO CARD
Then we get to Monica Wilson, who is seeking a fifth term after first being elected in 2012.
My initial reaction? Nope, finally time to move on.
How does a city with this many problems keep returning its longest-serving councilmember to office?
Like longtime AUSD Trustee Mary Rocha, Wilson owns part of Antioch’s record. You cannot serve this long and pretend the bad votes, budgets, zoning decisions and dysfunction happened while you were out getting coffee.
But elections aren’t conducted against an imaginary perfect candidate.
The District 4 ballot is Wilson, Sandra White, Andrew Becker and Metty Mathews Alappat.
And this is where my thinking changed.
I like things about White. I like things Becker talks about. Both raise legitimate issues.
But neither has convinced me that changing the nameplate automatically changes Antioch.
White has ideas, but I want far more substance behind them and far less amateur hour on social media.
Suggesting Antioch should look more like San Francisco when addressing homelessness? Hard pass. Her homelessness proposal also sounds remarkably similar to the type of Homekey-style approach Antioch is already dealing with, potentially with another long-term financial commitment attached–its simply campaign rhetoric.
On redevelopment, zoning overlays and development, some of the criticism sounds great today—but where was everyone, including White while these changes were actually occurring?
Vacant buildings? Same story.
People have been talking about Somersville Town Center and the surrounding area for years. Identifying the problem isn’t the same thing as presenting a credible plan to fix it.
As for Becker, he can talk policy all day, and often does it well and he is fun to listen to sometimes. But eventually a campaign requires actually campaigning.
Alappat… Alappat… Alappat…. anyone?
Meanwhile, something has happened with Wilson.
She finally found her voice.
Apparently, it only took 14 years.
Better late than never.
Without Lamar Hernandez-Thorpe dominating every oxygen molecule in the council chamber, Wilson appears more comfortable speaking up, pushing back and taking a leadership role.
And whether anyone wants to admit it or not looking at the big picture, experience is about to matter.
Antioch is heading into difficult financial and policy decisions while state and federal conditions could make local government even more complicated. Wilson at least brings institutional knowledge and established governmental relationships to that fight — Antioch will need it!
That doesn’t erase her record.
It means her experience can actually become useful if she applies the lessons from it.
[Antioch]
L to R: Don Freitas, Ron Bernal, and Louie Rocha
MAYBE ANTIOCH NEEDS BALANCE
And that brings me to the sentence I never thought I’d write: Torres-Walker and Wilson are part of the balance Antioch needs right now.
Not because everything they’ve done was correct.
Hell no.
Not because Antioch should forget the last decade.
Absolutely not.
But because Antioch cannot spend another four years fighting the last four years like it does every election cycle.
Residents delivered a mandate two years ago for the so-called “undo council.” Motts and White had every opportunity to capitalize on that momentum and make the case for the next phase of change.
I don’t believe either one did.
Where is the comprehensive plan? Where are the pathways? Where is the vision explaining how Antioch will be measurably better four years from now?
Instead, too much of this election feels like the same thing Antioch has done for 20 years: identify everything that is wrong, blame somebody else and offer a collection of talking points instead of a roadmap.
That is not good enough.
It’s a loser’s mentality for a city that desperately needs to start winning again.
Mayor Ron Bernal, Don Freitas and Louie Rocha are already on the council alongside Torres-Walker and Wilson. Whoever occupies these seats after November needs to stop obsessing over political teams, old grudges and who on which side of what fight. The community should move on to. Focus on the policy going forward, not the person.
And maybe there’s a lesson for everyone in Antioch sitting right there in plain site with Freitas.
Who would have predicted after the political battles of the early 2000s that Freitas would eventually return to the City Council more than two decades later to be a voice of reason?
Yet here we are.
People change. Circumstances change. Cities change. Sometimes the people you thought were finished come back. Sometimes the people you swore you’d never support earn another look.
That’s politics. More importantly, that’s life.
So maybe Antioch should finally stop governing through the rearview mirror.
Enough.
Build some damn bridges.
Develop an economic strategy.
Fix the staffing problems.
Make the difficult budget decisions.
Support businesses.
Address blight.
Improve public safety.
Get development moving.
And for the love of God, produce an actual plan and showcase a vision for where Antioch is supposed to be 5, 10 and 20 years from now.
Antioch has shown it doesn’t need another revolution every two years, with different people filling seats, but rather it needs functioning government.
I never thought I would arrive at this conclusion.
Then again, nobody saw Don Freitas returning after the battles of the early 2000s, either.
But Rule No. 1: Never say never.
And Antioch has certainly proven Rule No. 2: Anything can fucking happen.
[Mike Burkholder]
Mike Burkholder
Publisher of ContraCosta.news
[email protected]
Podcast: Monica Wilson, Antioch City Councilmember and Candidate
Podcast: Tamisha Torres-Walker, Antioch City Councilmember and Candidate
[businessclub]
0 FacebookTwitterPinterestEmail
CC News
Publisher of ContraCosta.news and host of several Podcast Shows focusing on Contra Costa County and State of California.
previous post
Walnut Creek Asked to Consider Supporting Ballot Measures
next post
Editorial: Pittsburg Must Look at the Big Picture, Not a Pixel
You may also like
Antioch Police Announces Substantial Compliance and Release from...
Hobby Stock Championship Night Leads Five Division Program...
Antioch Couple Pleads for Return of Wedding Photos...
SWAT Operation Leads to Arrest of Attempted Murder...
El Campanil Theatre: Diamond Ballet’s Nutcracker Moved Up...
Gibson-Gray: Be Curious About Antioch City Council District...
Updated: Antioch City Council Calls Special Meeting to...
Sarale A Double Winner In Rivertown Rumble At...
CHP: Woman Searching For Lost Item on Highway...
Editorial: Bishop-Mello and Zickuhr Give Brentwood the Reset...