top of page
[Alameda League Logo]
serving the City of Alameda
Join the League
Donate
Search Our Site
Member Portal
Donate
[League members marching with our banner in Alameda 4th of July parade in 2022.]
We Advocate for You: Ballot Recommendations & Lobbying
Join us in advocating for a more transparent, inclusive, and responsive democracy. The League of Women Voters of Alameda takes action on local issues like campaign finance reform, good governance, ranked-choice voting, and ballot measures. We invite you to raise your voice, attend city meetings, and work alongside us to shape the future of our community.
[3 Alameda League members at event to help people register to vote]
Vote with the League
[I Vote with the League]
The League only takes a stance on ballot measures based on current League positions.
Recommendations for State ballot measures are considered by the LWV of California Legislation Committee, and approved by its Board.
Recommendations for County ballot measures are considered by the LWV Alameda County Council, and approved by the six local Leagues in Alameda County.
Recommendations for City of Alameda ballot measures are considered by the LWV of Alameda Advocacy Committee and approved by the LWV of Alameda Board.
​
(If you just want information on the ballot measures and not League recommendations, please visit our Pros & Cons webpage.)
General Election 2026: Vote with Us!
State-wide ballot recommendations:
We recommend a 'yes' vote on Propositions 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
We have decided to remain neutral on Proposition 40.
​
We recommend a 'no' vote on Propositions 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44, and 45.
​
Regional ballot recommendation:
We recommend a 'yes' vote on the Regional Transit Measure (SB 63).
​​
City of Alameda ballot recommendations:
We recommend a 'yes' vote on Measure L.
We have decided to remain neutral on Measures M and N. ​
VoteWithTheLeague
How We Take Action
​Leagues at all levels take action on behalf of voters and citizens. Our advocacy can include lobbying, legislative testimony, public statements, writing letters to media or legislators, holding press conferences, speaking at hearings and public meetings, adding our voice to a ballot measure campaign, joining coalitions or sending action alerts to our members. Taking action is always based on current program positions and/or on League Principles.
At the State level, potential action on legislation and ballot measures will be considered by the LWV of California's Legislation Committee. This committee can take action on bills for the state League, and it makes recommendations to its Board for action on ballot measures.
At the Local level, the LWV Alameda's Advocacy Committee follows local governing bodies to advocate and lobby for League policy positions. During elections, the Advocacy Committee participates in analyzing local measures and making recommendations its Board for the League’s position on selected issues. Throughout the year, the Advocacy Committee concentrates on proposals and decisions of local boards and commissions and alerts its Board for possible action when a proposal relates to a League position. Additionally, the Advocacy Committee identifies selected issues of high interest to the LWV of Alameda to work on throughout the year.
[Proclamation about National Voter Registration Day by the Alameda County Board of Supervisors in 2024.]
KeyIssues
Program - Key Issues for Education & Advocacy
Every cycle, members of the League of Women Voters determine the issues most important to focus their time, energy, and money upon. This is our annual program planning process.
LWV of Alameda has a one-year cycle, and our current Program (i.e., key issues) for FY 2026-2027 includes:
​​
Voter Education and Protection
Immigrant Rights
Free Speech
Electoral Reform, including campaign finance
Civics Education and Voter Engagement for Youth
Transparency and Good Government
Here are the programs for all other levels of the League of Women Voters:
LWV of the U.S. Program (2024-2026)
LWV of California Program (2025-2027)
LWV of the Bay Area Program (2024-2026).​
Review the 2026-2028 proposed program for the LWV of the U.S. here. ​​​
Positions
League Positions
A League position is the stand of the League on a public issue. It serves as the basis for advocacy or action. A League position is established after members have studied an issue and achieved consensus on policies and practices that best serve the public interest. Local League positions are used in conjunction with positions adopted by the national and state levels of League and may not be in conflict with them, if they are on the same subject.
Here are the positions from all levels of the League of Women Voters:​​
LWV of the U.S. Positions
LWV of California Positions
LWV of the Bay Area Positions
Alameda County League Positions
LWV of Alameda Positions
[League members holding rally for E.R.A. support, which is one of our League positions.]
Up
bottom of page