[350 Contra Costa Action logo in orange, aqua and teal California Ballot Propositions 2026: Our Guide | 350 Contra Costa Action]
Donate
Youtube X-twitter Linkedin Facebook Instagram
Search
California Ballot Propositions 2026: Our Guide
[California Ballot Propositions 2026 California | Our guide to Climate, Social Justice, and Democracy-related measures California Ballot Propositions 2026: Our Guide | 350 Contra Costa Action California Ballot Propositions 2026: Our Guide | 350 Contra Costa Action]
Recommendations for Social Justice, Climate, and Democracy
Are you tired of billionaires getting richer while the rest of us struggle more than ever to pay for basic necessities like health care? Would you like elections to be won by the best candidate, not the most well-funded one? Do you want your city to review the environmental impacts of projects like data centers? Propositions on the 2026 California ballot address these and other important issues, some in positive ways, others negatively.
Of the 14 propositions on the ballot, 350 Bay Area Action and 350 Contra Costa Action support or oppose eight that impact the transition to renewable energy and social justice, or the democratic society in which our voices can be heard. Billionaires will spend millions on campaigns to keep the unfair status quo. Your vote is your chance to make progress towards a healthier, more just society for all.
Looking for our candidate endorsements?
Check our Electoral Team page, where we’ll soon announce our picks for the , election.
Our 2026 Ballot Proposition Recommendations
After careful research and review, our electoral team recommends the following positions on this year’s key climate, social justice, and voting-rights propositions.
Proposition 3: Permanent High-Earner Tax – Support
This proposition makes permanent the high-earner taxes set to expire in 2031. Eighty-nine percent of the taxes collected would go to K-12 public schools, and the remainder will fund community colleges. Supporting this tax expands the state’s revenue sources, making more funds available for climate change mitigation programs and initiatives.
Proposition 4: Allow Public Financing of Election Campaigns – Support
This measure repeals the ban on public financing of campaigns in non-charter cities. It allows the state and local governments to provide candidates with public funds under spending limits and eligibility rules. By removing the influence of wealthy campaign donors, candidates who advocate for environmental justice and climate issues will have a fair chance of being elected.
Proposition 39: Voter Identification – Oppose
Voters would be required to show ID when voting in person or provide a unique 4-digit government identification number when voting by mail. Prop 39 also mandates state review of voter rolls and reporting on citizenship verification, and allows citizens to sue non-complying counties. To promote environmental and social justice, we have to remove obstacles to voting for disadvantaged communities, not create them.
Proposition 40: One-Time Wealth Tax for State-Funded Health Care Programs – Support
This measure will levy a one-time 5% tax on billionaires’ accumulated wealth to keep local hospitals and ERs open, fund food aid, and support K-14 public education. It serves social justice by mitigating some of the cuts in basic services funding made by the federal government.
Proposition 41: New Taxes Subject to State Spending Limit – Oppose
Requires new state taxes to comply with California’s existing state spending limit and requires audits of programs funded by new state special taxes. WHY NO: Prop 41 could nullify Prop 40, which excludes the revenue raised by its one-time wealth tax from the state spending limit.
Proposition 42: Prohibit New Taxes on Personal Assets – Oppose
Tech billionaires, including Sergey Brin and Eric Schmidt, are the main supporters of the campaign to pass Prop 42, which would nullify Prop 40. This measure prohibits taxes on personal assets, including retirement plans, investment accounts, and businesses, effective . It would make it impossible to tax the assets of the very wealthy now and in the future.
Proposition 43: Two-Thirds Vote Requirement for Local Special Tax Initiatives – Oppose
This proposition requires a two-thirds supermajority for citizen-initiated local special tax measures, which would hobble residents’ ability to fund climate-related projects and programs. Currently, these local measures require a simple majority to pass. The proposal is in effect minority rule as it allows a third of the voters to stop a special tax favored by close to two-thirds of the voters.
Proposition 45: Changes to Environmental Review Process – Oppose
The CEQA project review process would be limited to compliance with laws rather than potential impacts. Public comment periods would be severely limited, developers would have more control, and developers could sue if permits are denied. The proposition applies to an expansive range of projects, including data centers, industrial facilities, and housing. Should Proposition 45 pass, localities would be severely limited in their ability to determine environmental impacts and deny permits to detrimental projects.
Measure RTM: Regional Transit Measure – Support
Funds public transit through a half cent sales tax in Alameda, Contra Costa, Santa Clara, and San Mateo counties, and a one cent tax in San Francisco. WHY YES: It avoids catastrophic service cuts for AC Transit (16%), BART (70%), Caltrain, SamTrans, SF Muni (50%), and VTA.
Propositions often pass or fail by slim margins. Every vote counts! Your ballot choices shape California’s future.
Download our one-page Props 2026 CheatSheet
Pub. ; Rev.
Image credit: Volunteer Staff Design
— Share this page —